jekyll/_cci2/api-job-trigger.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Using the API to Trigger Jobs"
short-title: "Using the API to Trigger Jobs"
description: "How to define and trigger non-build jobs"
categories: [configuring-jobs]
order: 80
---


This document describes
how to trigger jobs using the CircleCI API.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview

Use the [CircleCI API]({{ site.baseurl }}/api/v1-reference/)
to trigger [jobs]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/jobs-steps/#jobs-overview)
that you have defined in `.circleci/config.yml`.

The following example shows
how to trigger the `deploy_docker` job
by using `curl`.

```bash
curl -u ${CIRCLE_API_USER_TOKEN} \
     -d build_parameters[CIRCLE_JOB]=deploy_docker \
     https://circleci.com/api/v1.1/project/<vcs-type>/<org>/<repo>/tree/<branch>
```

Some notes on the variables
used in this example:
- `CIRCLE_API_USER_TOKEN` is a [personal API token]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/managing-api-tokens/#creating-a-personal-api-token).
- `<vcs-type>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to your chosen VCS (either `github` or `bitbucket`).
- `<org>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to the name of your CircleCI organization.
- `<repo>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to the name of your repository.
- `<branch>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to the name of your branch.

For a complete reference of the API,
see the [CircleCI API Documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/api/v1-reference/).

**Note:**
It is possible to trigger [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/) with the CircleCI API, using a new endpoint, see the Trigger a Build by Project section of the [CircleCI API Projects Documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/api/v1-reference/#new-project-build).

Jobs triggered with the API may contain a `workflows` section.
These workflows do **not** have to reference the job
you trigger with the API.
Jobs triggered with the API do **not** have access to environment variables
created for [a CircleCI Context]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/contexts/).
Instead, define these variables at the [Project level]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project).

## Conditionally Running Jobs With the API

The next example demonstrates a configuration for building docker images with `setup_remote_docker` only for builds that should be deployed.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: ruby:2.4.0-jessie
        environment:
          LANG: C.UTF-8
    working_directory: /my-project
    parallelism: 2
    steps:
      - checkout

      - run: echo "run some tests"

      - deploy:
          name: conditionally run a deploy job
          command: |
            # replace this with your build/deploy check (i.e. current branch is "release")
            if [[ true ]]; then
              curl --user ${CIRCLE_API_USER_TOKEN} \
                --data build_parameters[CIRCLE_JOB]=deploy_docker \
                --data revision=$CIRCLE_SHA1 \
                https://circleci.com/api/v1.1/project/github/$CIRCLE_PROJECT_USERNAME/$CIRCLE_PROJECT_REPONAME/tree/$CIRCLE_BRANCH
            fi

  deploy_docker:
    docker:
      - image: ruby:2.4.0-jessie
    working_directory: /
    steps:
      - setup_remote_docker
      - run: echo "deploy section running"
```

Notes on the above example:

- Using the `deploy` step in the build job is important to prevent triggering N builds, where N is your parallelism value.
- We use an API call with `build_parameters[CIRCLE_JOB]=deploy_docker` so that only the `deploy_docker` job will be run.

## See Also

[Triggers]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/triggers/)

Commit message:

Clarify api-job-trigger considerations

jekyll/_cci2/api-job-trigger.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Using the API to Trigger Jobs"
short-title: "Using the API to Trigger Jobs"
description: "How to define and trigger non-build jobs"
categories: [configuring-jobs]
order: 80
---


This document describes
how to trigger jobs using the CircleCI API.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview

Use the [CircleCI API]({{ site.baseurl }}/api/v1-reference/)
to trigger [jobs]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/jobs-steps/#jobs-overview)
that you have defined in `.circleci/config.yml`.

The following example shows
how to trigger the `deploy_docker` job
by using `curl`.

```bash
curl -u ${CIRCLE_API_USER_TOKEN} \
     -d build_parameters[CIRCLE_JOB]=deploy_docker \
     https://circleci.com/api/v1.1/project/<vcs-type>/<org>/<repo>/tree/<branch>
```

Some notes on the variables
used in this example:
- `CIRCLE_API_USER_TOKEN` is a [personal API token]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/managing-api-tokens/#creating-a-personal-api-token).
- `<vcs-type>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to your chosen VCS (either `github` or `bitbucket`).
- `<org>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to the name of your CircleCI organization.
- `<repo>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to the name of your repository.
- `<branch>` is a placeholder variable
and refers to the name of your branch.

For a complete reference of the API,
see the [CircleCI API Documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/api/v1-reference/).

**Import Considerations When Triggering A Job Via The API**

- Jobs triggered with the API may contain a `workflows` section
- Your workflow does **not** have to reference the job you triggered with the API
- Jobs that are triggered via the API do **not** have access to environment
  variables created for [a CircleCI Context]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/contexts/)
  - If you wish to use environment variables they have to be defined at the [Project level]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project)
- It is currently not possible to trigger a single job if you are using CircleCI 2.1 and Workflows
- It is possible to trigger [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/) with the CircleCI API, using the [Trigger a Build by Project]({{ site.baseurl}}/api/v1-reference/#new-project-build) endpoint


## Conditionally Running Jobs With the API

The next example demonstrates a configuration for building docker images with `setup_remote_docker` only for builds that should be deployed.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: ruby:2.4.0-jessie
        environment:
          LANG: C.UTF-8
    working_directory: /my-project
    parallelism: 2
    steps:
      - checkout

      - run: echo "run some tests"

      - deploy:
          name: conditionally run a deploy job
          command: |
            # replace this with your build/deploy check (i.e. current branch is "release")
            if [[ true ]]; then
              curl --user ${CIRCLE_API_USER_TOKEN} \
                --data build_parameters[CIRCLE_JOB]=deploy_docker \
                --data revision=$CIRCLE_SHA1 \
                https://circleci.com/api/v1.1/project/github/$CIRCLE_PROJECT_USERNAME/$CIRCLE_PROJECT_REPONAME/tree/$CIRCLE_BRANCH
            fi

  deploy_docker:
    docker:
      - image: ruby:2.4.0-jessie
    working_directory: /
    steps:
      - setup_remote_docker
      - run: echo "deploy section running"
```

Notes on the above example:

- Using the `deploy` step in the build job is important to prevent triggering N builds, where N is your parallelism value.
- We use an API call with `build_parameters[CIRCLE_JOB]=deploy_docker` so that only the `deploy_docker` job will be run.

## See Also

[Triggers]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/triggers/)
