jekyll/_cci2/architecture.adoc, before:

= CircleCI Server Container Architecture
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
//:circle-success: image:circle-success.png[]
//:circle-warning: image:circle-warning.png[]
//:circle-failure: image:circle-failure.png[]

This document outlines the containerized services that run on the Services machine within a CircleCI Server installation. This is provided both to give an overview of service operation, and to help with troubleshooting in the event of service outages. Supplementary notes and a key are provided below the following table.

toc::[]

[discrete]
=== Notes

* Database migrator services are listed here with a low failure severity as they only run at startup, however:
+
WARNING: If migrator services are down at startup connected services will fail.

* With a platinum support contract some services can be externalized (marked with * here) and managed to suit your requirements. Externalization provides higher data security and allows for redundancy to be built into your system.

[discrete]
=== key

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=2*, options="header", stripes=even]
|===
| Icon
| Description

| icon:check-circle[]
| Failure has a minor affect on production - no loss of data or functioning.

| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| Failure might cause issues with some jobs, but no loss of data.

| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| Failure can cause loss of data, corruption of jobs/workflows, major loss of functionality.
|===

<<<

== Containers, Roles, Failure Modes and Startup Dependencies

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=5*,^,*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="3,3,3,2,3"]
|===
| **Container / Image**
| **Role**
| **What happens if it fails?**
| **Failure severity**
| **Startup dependencies**

| `api-service`
| Provides a GraphQL API that provides much of the data to render the web frontend.
| Many parts of the UI (e.g. Contexts) will fail completely.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `contexts-service-migrator`, `contexts-service`, `vault-cci`

| `audit-log-service`
| Persists audit log events to blob storage for long term storage.
| Some events may not be recorded.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `contexts-service`
| Stores and provides encrypted contexts.
| All builds using Contexts will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `contexts-service-migrator`, `vault-cci`

| `contexts-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `contexts-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `cron-service`
| Triggers scheduled workflows.
| Scheduled workflows will not run.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `cron-service-migrator`

| `cron-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the cron-service.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `domain-service`
| Stores and provides information about our domain model.
| Workflows will fail to start and some REST API calls may fail causing `500` errors in the CircleCI UI. If LDAP authentication is in use, all logins will fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `domain-service-migrator`

| `domain-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `domain-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `exim`
| Mail Transfer Agent (MTA) used to send all outbound SMTP.
| No email notifications will be sent.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `federation-service`
| Stores user identities (LDAP).
| If LDAP authentication is in use, all logins will fail and some REST API calls might fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[] only if LDAP in use
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `federations-service-migrator`

| `federation-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `federations-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `fileserved`
| File storage service used as a replacement for S3 when CircleCI Server is run outside of AWS. Not used if Server is configured to use S3. Stores step output logs, artifacts, test results, caches and workspaces.
| If not using S3, builds will produce no outputand some REST API calls might fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[] if **not** using S3
| None

| `frontend`
| CircleCI web app and www-api proxy.
| The UI and REST API will be unavailable and no jobs will be triggered by Github/Enterprise. Running builds will be OK but no updates will be seen.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`

| `mongo` *
| Mongo data store.
| Potential total data loss. All running builds will fail and the UI will not work.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `mongodb-upgrader`

| `nomad-metrics`
| Queries the nomad server for stats and sends them to statsd.
| Nomad metrics will be lost, but everything else should run as normal.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `output-processor` / `output-processing`
| Receives job output & status updates and writes them to MongoDB. Also provides an API to running jobs to access caches, workspaces, store caches, workspaces, artifacts, & test results.
| All running builds will either fail or be left in an unfixable, inconsistent state. There will also be data loss in terms of step output, test results and artifacts.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `permissions-service`
| Provides the CircleCI permissions interface.
| Workflows will fail to start and some REST API calls may fail, causing 500 errors in the UI.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `permissions-service-migrator`

| `permissions-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `permissions-service`
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `picard-dispatcher`
| Splits a job into tasks and sends them to `schedulerer` to be run.
| No jobs will be sent to Nomad, the run queue will increase in size but there should be no meaningful loss of data.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `postgres` / `postgres-script-enhance` *
| Basic `postgresql` with enhancements for creating required databases when containers are launched.
| Potential total data loss. All running builds will fail and the UI will not work.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `rabbitmq` / `rabbitmq-delayed` *
| Runs the RabbitMQ server. Most of our services use RabbitMQ for queueing.
| Potential total data loss. All running builds will fail and the UI will not work.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `outputRunningRedis` / `redis` *
| The Redis key/value store.
| Lose output from currently-running job steps. API calls out to github may also fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `schedulerer`
| Sends tasks to `server-nomad` to run. \
| No jobs will be sent to Nomad, the run queue will increase in size but there should be no meaningful loss of data.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `mongodb-upgrader` / `server-mongo-upgrader`
| Used to run any mongo conversion/upgrade scripts during mongo version upgrade.
| Not required to run all the time. \
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `nomad_server` / `server-nomad` *
| Nomad primary service.
| No 2.0 build jobs will run.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `ready-agent` / `server-ready-agent`
| Called by Replicated to check whether other containers are ready.
| Only required on startup. If unavailable on startup the whole system will fail.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `server-usage-stats`
| Sends the user count to the internal CircleCI “phone home” endpoint.
| CircleCI will not receive usage stats for your install but no affect on operation.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `shutdown-hook-poller`
| Checks the `frontend` container for 1.0 Builder shutdown requests. If a request is found, the 1.0 Builder is shut down.
| 1.0 Builder lifecycles will not be properly managed, but jobs will continue to run.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `slanger`
| Provides real-time events to the CircleCI app.
| Live UI updates will stop but hard refreshes will still work.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `telegraf`
| This is the statsd forwarding agent that our local services write to and can be configured to forward to an external metrics service.
| Metics will stop working but jobs will continue to run.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `tutum/logrotate`
| Used to manage log rotations for all containers on the services machine.
| If this stays down for a long period the Services machine disk will eventually run out of space and other services will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `test-results`
| Parses test result files and stores data.
| There will be no test failure or timing data for jobs, but this will be back-filled once the service is restarted.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `contexts-vault` / `vault-cci` *
| Instance of Hashicorp’s Vault – an encryption service that provides key-management, secure storage, and other encryption related services. Used to handle the encryption and key store for the `contexts-service`.
| `contexts-service` will stop working, and all jobs that use `contexts-service` will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `vm-gc`
| Periodically check for stale `machine` and remote Docker instances and request that `vm-service` remove them.
| Old vm-service instances might not be destroyed until this service is restarted.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `vm-service-db-migrator`

| `vm-scaler`
| Periodically requests that `vm-service` provision more instances for running `machine` and remote Docker jobs.
| VM instances for `machine` and Remote Docker might not be provisioned causing you to run out of capacity to run jobs with these executors.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `vm-service-db-migrator`

| `vm-service`
| Inventory of available `vm-service` instances, and provisioning of new instances.
| Jobs that use `machine` or remote Docker will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `vm-service-db-migrator`

| `vm-service-db-migrator`
| Used to run database migrations for `vm-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `workflows-conductor`
| Coordinates and provides information about workflows.
| No new workflows will start, currently running workflows might end up in an inconsistent state, and some REST and GraphQL API requests will fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `workflows-conductor-migrator`

| `workflows-conductor-migrator`
| Runs postgreSQL migrations for the `workflows-conductor`.
| Only runs on startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`
|===

Commit message:

more sections and fix some GitHub typos

jekyll/_cci2/architecture.adoc, after:

= CircleCI Server Container Architecture
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
//:circle-success: image:circle-success.png[]
//:circle-warning: image:circle-warning.png[]
//:circle-failure: image:circle-failure.png[]

{% include snippets/server-only.adoc %}

This document outlines the containerized services that run on the Services machine within a CircleCI Server installation. This is provided both to give an overview of service operation, and to help with troubleshooting in the event of service outages. Supplementary notes and a key are provided below the following table.

toc::[]

[discrete]
=== Notes

* Database migrator services are listed here with a low failure severity as they only run at startup, however:
+
WARNING: If migrator services are down at startup connected services will fail.

* With a platinum support contract some services can be externalized (marked with * here) and managed to suit your requirements. Externalization provides higher data security and allows for redundancy to be built into your system.

[discrete]
=== key

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=2*, options="header", stripes=even]
|===
| Icon
| Description

| icon:check-circle[]
| Failure has a minor affect on production - no loss of data or functioning.

| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| Failure might cause issues with some jobs, but no loss of data.

| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| Failure can cause loss of data, corruption of jobs/workflows, major loss of functionality.
|===

<<<

== Containers, Roles, Failure Modes and Startup Dependencies

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=5*,^,*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="3,3,3,2,3"]
|===
| **Container / Image**
| **Role**
| **What happens if it fails?**
| **Failure severity**
| **Startup dependencies**

| `api-service`
| Provides a GraphQL API that provides much of the data to render the web frontend.
| Many parts of the UI (e.g. Contexts) will fail completely.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `contexts-service-migrator`, `contexts-service`, `vault-cci`

| `audit-log-service`
| Persists audit log events to blob storage for long term storage.
| Some events may not be recorded.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `contexts-service`
| Stores and provides encrypted contexts.
| All builds using Contexts will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `contexts-service-migrator`, `vault-cci`

| `contexts-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `contexts-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `cron-service`
| Triggers scheduled workflows.
| Scheduled workflows will not run.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `cron-service-migrator`

| `cron-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the cron-service.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `domain-service`
| Stores and provides information about our domain model.
| Workflows will fail to start and some REST API calls may fail causing `500` errors in the CircleCI UI. If LDAP authentication is in use, all logins will fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `domain-service-migrator`

| `domain-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `domain-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `exim`
| Mail Transfer Agent (MTA) used to send all outbound SMTP.
| No email notifications will be sent.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `federation-service`
| Stores user identities (LDAP).
| If LDAP authentication is in use, all logins will fail and some REST API calls might fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[] only if LDAP in use
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `federations-service-migrator`

| `federation-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `federations-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `fileserved`
| File storage service used as a replacement for S3 when CircleCI Server is run outside of AWS. Not used if Server is configured to use S3. Stores step output logs, artifacts, test results, caches and workspaces.
| If not using S3, builds will produce no outputand some REST API calls might fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[] if **not** using S3
| None

| `frontend`
| CircleCI web app and www-api proxy.
| The UI and REST API will be unavailable and no jobs will be triggered by GitHub/Enterprise. Running builds will be OK but no updates will be seen.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`

| `mongo` *
| Mongo data store.
| Potential total data loss. All running builds will fail and the UI will not work.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `mongodb-upgrader`

| `nomad-metrics`
| Queries the nomad server for stats and sends them to statsd.
| Nomad metrics will be lost, but everything else should run as normal.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `output-processor` / `output-processing`
| Receives job output & status updates and writes them to MongoDB. Also provides an API to running jobs to access caches, workspaces, store caches, workspaces, artifacts, & test results.
| All running builds will either fail or be left in an unfixable, inconsistent state. There will also be data loss in terms of step output, test results and artifacts.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `permissions-service`
| Provides the CircleCI permissions interface.
| Workflows will fail to start and some REST API calls may fail, causing 500 errors in the UI.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `permissions-service-migrator`

| `permissions-service-migrator`
| Runs postgresql migrations for the `permissions-service`
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`

| `picard-dispatcher`
| Splits a job into tasks and sends them to `schedulerer` to be run.
| No jobs will be sent to Nomad, the run queue will increase in size but there should be no meaningful loss of data.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `postgres` / `postgres-script-enhance` *
| Basic `postgresql` with enhancements for creating required databases when containers are launched.
| Potential total data loss. All running builds will fail and the UI will not work.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `rabbitmq` / `rabbitmq-delayed` *
| Runs the RabbitMQ server. Most of our services use RabbitMQ for queueing.
| Potential total data loss. All running builds will fail and the UI will not work.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `outputRunningRedis` / `redis` *
| The Redis key/value store.
| Lose output from currently-running job steps. API calls out to GitHub may also fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `schedulerer`
| Sends tasks to `server-nomad` to run. \
| No jobs will be sent to Nomad, the run queue will increase in size but there should be no meaningful loss of data.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `mongodb-upgrader` / `server-mongo-upgrader`
| Used to run any mongo conversion/upgrade scripts during mongo version upgrade.
| Not required to run all the time. \
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `nomad_server` / `server-nomad` *
| Nomad primary service.
| No 2.0 build jobs will run.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| None

| `ready-agent` / `server-ready-agent`
| Called by Replicated to check whether other containers are ready.
| Only required on startup. If unavailable on startup the whole system will fail.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `server-usage-stats`
| Sends the user count to the internal CircleCI “phone home” endpoint.
| CircleCI will not receive usage stats for your install but no affect on operation.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `shutdown-hook-poller`
| Checks the `frontend` container for 1.0 Builder shutdown requests. If a request is found, the 1.0 Builder is shut down.
| 1.0 Builder lifecycles will not be properly managed, but jobs will continue to run.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `slanger`
| Provides real-time events to the CircleCI app.
| Live UI updates will stop but hard refreshes will still work.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `telegraf`
| This is the statsd forwarding agent that our local services write to and can be configured to forward to an external metrics service.
| Metics will stop working but jobs will continue to run.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `tutum/logrotate`
| Used to manage log rotations for all containers on the services machine.
| If this stays down for a long period the Services machine disk will eventually run out of space and other services will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `test-results`
| Parses test result files and stores data.
| There will be no test failure or timing data for jobs, but this will be back-filled once the service is restarted.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `contexts-vault` / `vault-cci` *
| Instance of Hashicorp’s Vault – an encryption service that provides key-management, secure storage, and other encryption related services. Used to handle the encryption and key store for the `contexts-service`.
| `contexts-service` will stop working, and all jobs that use `contexts-service` will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| None

| `vm-gc`
| Periodically check for stale `machine` and remote Docker instances and request that `vm-service` remove them.
| Old vm-service instances might not be destroyed until this service is restarted.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `vm-service-db-migrator`

| `vm-scaler`
| Periodically requests that `vm-service` provision more instances for running `machine` and remote Docker jobs.
| VM instances for `machine` and Remote Docker might not be provisioned causing you to run out of capacity to run jobs with these executors.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `vm-service-db-migrator`

| `vm-service`
| Inventory of available `vm-service` instances, and provisioning of new instances.
| Jobs that use `machine` or remote Docker will fail.
| icon:exclamation-triangle[]
| `vm-service-db-migrator`

| `vm-service-db-migrator`
| Used to run database migrations for `vm-service`.
| Only runs at startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| None

| `workflows-conductor`
| Coordinates and provides information about workflows.
| No new workflows will start, currently running workflows might end up in an inconsistent state, and some REST and GraphQL API requests will fail.
| icon:fire-extinguisher[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`, `workflows-conductor-migrator`

| `workflows-conductor-migrator`
| Runs postgreSQL migrations for the `workflows-conductor`.
| Only runs on startup.
| icon:check-circle[]
| `postgres`, `frontend`
|===
