jekyll/_cci2/aws.adoc, before:

[#install]
= Installation on AWS with Terraform
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

Following is a step by step guide to installing CircleCI Server v{{site.server_version}} with Terraform.

toc::[]

== Define Variables for Terraform

. Clone the https://github.com/circleci/enterprise-setup[Setup] repository. If you already have it cloned, make sure it is up-to-date and you are on the `master` branch by running:
+
```shell
git checkout master && git pull
```
. Go to the top directory of the `enterprise-setup` repo on your local machine.

. Run `terraform init` to initialize your working directory.

. Run `make init` to initialize a `terraform.tfvars` file (your previous `terraform.tfvars` if any, will be backed up in the same directory).

. Open `terraform.tfvars` in an editor and fill in appropriate AWS values for section 1.

. If you plan to use 1.0 builders, specify a `circle_secret_passphrase` in section 2, replacing `...` with alpha numeric characters, if not, leave it as is. 1.0 builders are disabled by default in section 3.

. Specify the instance type to use for your Nomad clients. By default, the value specified in the `terraform.tfvars` file for Nomad Clients is `m4.2xlarge` (8 vCPUs, 32GB RAM). To increase the number of concurrent CircleCI jobs that each Nomad Client can run, modify section 2 of the `terraform.tfvars` file to specify a larger `nomad_client_instance_type`. Refer to the AWS https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types[Amazon EC2 Instance Types] guide for details.
+
NOTE: The `builder_instance_type` is only used for CircleCI 1.0 and is disabled by default in section 3.

. In section 3 you can:
.. choose to use 1.0 Builders if your project requires it (by changing the count to `1`)
.. enter proxy details, and enter a prefix if there will be multiple installations within your AWS region – the Services and Nomad client instances will be displayed with this prefix in the AWS console.

.Example tfvars
image::tfvars.png[terraform.tfvars]

Above is an example of the `terraform.tfvars` file you will be editing. The table below shows some of the default settings, and some optional variables that can be used to further customize your cluster. A full list of variables and defaults can be found in the `variables.tf` file in the root of the `enterprise-setup` directory.

Optional vars:

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=3*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="3,3,2"]
|===
| Var
| Description
| Default

| services_instance_type
| Instance type for the centralized services box.  We recommend a m4 instance
| m4.2xlarge

| builder_instance_type
| Instance type for the 1.0 builder machines.  We recommend a r3 instance
| r3.2xlarge

| max_builders_count
| Max number of 1.0 builders
| 2

| nomad_client_instance_type
| Instance type for the nomad clients (2.0 builders). We recommend a XYZ instance
| m4.xlarge

| max_clients_count
| Max number of nomad clients
| 2

| prefix
| Prefix for resource names
| circleci

| enable_nomad
| Provisions a nomad cluster for CircleCi Server v2.x
| 1

| enable_route
| Enable creating a Route53 route for the Services box
| 0

| services_user_data_enabled
| Set to 0 to disable automated installation on Services Box
| 1

| force_destroy_s3_bucket
| Add/Remove ability to forcefully destroy S3 bucket when your installation is shut down
| false

| services_disable_api_termination
| Protect the services instance from API termination. Set to false if you would like to terminate the Services box automatically when your installation is shut down
| true
|===

== Provision Instances
. Save your changes to the `tfvars` file and run the following:
+
```shell
terraform plan
```

. To provision your instances, run the following:
+
```shell
terraform apply
```
You will be asked to confirm if you wish to go ahead by typing `yes`.

. An IP address will be provided at the end of the Terraform output. Visit this IP to carry on the install process.
// explain what to do if this step fails

== Access Your Installation
. You will see a browser-specific SSL/TLS info box. This is just to inform you that on the next screen your browser might tell you the connection to the admin console is unsafe, but you can be confident it is secure. Click Continue to Setup and proceed to your installation IP.
+
.SSL Security
image::browser-warning.png[SSL Security]

. Enter your hostname – this can be your domain name or public IP of the Services Machine instance. At this time you can also upload your SSL public key and certificate if you have them. To proceed without providing these click Use Self-Signed Cert – choosing this option will mean you will see security warnings each time you visit the Management Console.
+
.Hostname
image::secure-management-console.png[Hostname]

. Upload your license.

. Decide how to secure the Management Console. You have three options:
.. Anonymous admin access to the console, anyone on port 8800 can access (not recommended)
.. Set a password that can be used to securely access the Management Console (recommended)
.. Use your existing directory-based authentication system (for example, LDAP)
+
.Admin Password
image::admin-password.png[Secure the Management Console]

. Your CircleCI installation will be put through a set of preflight checks, once they have completed, scroll down and click Continue.
//what should admins do if not all these checks pass
+
.Preflight Checks
image::preflight.png[Preflight Checks]

== Installation Setup
You should now be on the Management Console settings page (your-circleci-hostname.com:8800).

WARNING: You can make changes to the settings on this page at any time but changes here will require *downtime* while the service is restarted. Some settings are covered in more detail in out Operations Guide.

. The Hostname field should be pre-populated from earlier in the install process, but if you skipped that step, enter your domain or public IP of the Services machine instance. You can check this has been entered correctly by clicking Test Hostname Resolution.

. The Services section is only used when externalizing services. Externalization is available with a Platinum service contract. Contact support@circleci.com if you would like to find out more.
+
.External Services
image::hostname-services.png[Hostname and Services Settings]

. Under Execution Engines, only select 1.0 Builders if you require them for a legacy project – most users will leave this unchecked.

. Select Cluster in the 2.0 Builders Configuration section. The Single box option will run jobs on the Services machine, rather than a dedicated instance, so is only suitable for trialling the system, or for some small teams.
+
.1.0 and 2.0 Builders
image::builders.png[Execution Engine]

. Register CircleCI as a new OAuth application in GitHub.com or GitHub Enterprise by following the instructions provided onscreen.
+
NOTE: If you get an "Unknown error authenticating via GitHub. Try again, or contact us." message, try using `http:` instead of `https:` for the Homepage URL and callback URL.

. Copy the Client ID and Secret from GitHub and paste it into the relevant fields, then click Test Authentication.

. If you are using GitHub.com, move on to the next step. If using Github Enterprise, you will also need to supply an API Token so we can verify your organization. To provide this, complete the following from your GitHub Enterprise dashboard:
.. Navigate to Personal Settings (top right) > Developer Settings > Personal Access Tokens.
.. Click “generate new token”. Name the token appropriately to prevent accidental deletion. Do not tick any of the checkboxes, we only require the default public read-level access so no extra permissions are required. We recommend this token should be shared across your organization rather than being owned by a single user.
.. Copy the new token and paste it into the GitHub Enterprise Default API Token field.
+
.Enter Github Enterprise Token
image::ghe_token.png[Github Integration]

. If you wish to use LDAP authentication for your installation, enter the required details in the LDAP section. For a detailed runthrough of LDAP settings, see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/authentication/#ldap[LDAP authentication guide]

. We recommend using an SSL certificate and key for your install. You can submit these in the Privacy section if this step was missed during the installation.
+
.Privacy Settings
image::privacy.png[]

. We recommend using S3 for storage and all required fields for Storage are pre-populated. The IAM user, as referred to in the <<aws-prereq#planning,planning>> section of this document, is used here.
+
.Storage Options
image::storage.png[]

. Complete enhanced AWS Integration options.
// explain enhanced AWS integration 1.0 or just say ignore

. Complete the Email section if you wish to configure your own email server for sending build update emails. Leave this section is you wish to use our default email server.
+
NOTE: Due to an issue with our third party tooling, Replicated, the Test SMTP Authentication button is not currently working

. Configure VM service if you plan to use https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/building-docker-images/[Remote Docker] or `machine` executor (Linux/Windows) features. We recommend using an IAM instance profile for authentication, as described in the <<aws-prereq#planning,planning>> section of this document. With this section completed, instances will automatically be provisioned to execute jobs in Remote Docker or use the `machine` executor. To use the Windows `machine` executor you will need to https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/vm-service/#creating-a-windows-ami[build an image]. For more information on VM Service and creating custom AMIs for remote Docker and `machine` executor jobs, see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/vm-service/#section=server-administration[VM service guide].
+
You can preallocate instances to always be up and running, reducing the time taken for Remote Docker and `machine` executor jobs to start. If preallocation is set, a cron job will cycle through your preallocated instances once per day to prevent them getting into a bad/dead state.
+
CAUTION: If Docker Layer Caching (DLC) is to be used, VM preallocation should be set to `0`, forcing containers to be spun up on-demand for both `machine` and Remote Docker. It is worth noting here that if these fields are **not** set to `0` but all preallocated instances are in use, DLC will work correctly, as if preallocation was set to `0`.

. If you wish to use AWS Cloudwatch or Datadog for collating metrics for your installation, set this up here. For more information see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/monitoring/[Monitoring guidance]:
+
.Metrics
image::metrics_setup.png[]
+
You can also customize the metrics received through Telegraf. For more on this see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/monitoring/#custom-metrics[Custom Metics] guide.

. Artifacts persist data after a job is completed, and may be used for longer-term storage of your build process outputs. By default, CircleCI Server only allows approved types to be served. This is to protect users from uploading, and potentially executing malicious content. The **Artifacts** setting allows you to override this protection. For more information on safe/unsafe types see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/build-artifacts/[Build Artifacts guidance].

. After agreeing to the License Agreement and saving your settings, select Restart Now from the popup. You will then be redirected to start CircleCI and view the Management Console Dashboard. It will take a few minutes to download all of the necessary Docker containers.

NOTE: If the Management Console reports `Failure reported from operator: no such image` click Start again and it should continue.

== Validate Your Installation

. When the application is started, select Open to launch CircleCI in your browser, and sign up/log in to your CircleCI installation and start running 2.0 builds! You will become the Administrator at this point as you are the first person to sign in. Have a look at our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/getting-started/#section=getting-started[Getting Started] guide to start adding projects.
//<!--add info on making users administrators etc. to user management section of ops guide and put a link here-->
+
.Start CircleCI from your Dashboard
image::dashboard.png[]

. After build containers have started and images have been downloaded, the first build should begin immediately. If there are no updates after around **15 minutes**, and you have clicked the Refresh button, contact https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us[CircleCI support] for assistance.

. Next, use https://github.com/circleci/realitycheck[our realitycheck repo] to check basic CircleCI functionality.

. If you're unable to run your first builds successfully please start with our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/troubleshooting[Troubleshooting] guide for general troubleshooting topics, and our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/nomad[Introduction to Nomad Cluster Operation] for information about how to check the status of Builders in your installation.

Commit message:

fix reusable snippets for PDF and remove version variable as it's broken

jekyll/_cci2/aws.adoc, after:

[#install]
= Installation on AWS with Terraform
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

include::../_includes/snippets/server-only.adoc[]

Following is a step by step guide to installing CircleCI Server v2.18.3 with Terraform.

toc::[]

== Define Variables for Terraform

. Clone the https://github.com/circleci/enterprise-setup[Setup] repository. If you already have it cloned, make sure it is up-to-date and you are on the `master` branch by running:
+
```shell
git checkout master && git pull
```
. Go to the top directory of the `enterprise-setup` repo on your local machine.

. Run `terraform init` to initialize your working directory.

. Run `make init` to initialize a `terraform.tfvars` file (your previous `terraform.tfvars` if any, will be backed up in the same directory).

. Open `terraform.tfvars` in an editor and fill in appropriate AWS values for section 1.

. If you plan to use 1.0 builders, specify a `circle_secret_passphrase` in section 2, replacing `...` with alpha numeric characters, if not, leave it as is. 1.0 builders are disabled by default in section 3.

. Specify the instance type to use for your Nomad clients. By default, the value specified in the `terraform.tfvars` file for Nomad Clients is `m4.2xlarge` (8 vCPUs, 32GB RAM). To increase the number of concurrent CircleCI jobs that each Nomad Client can run, modify section 2 of the `terraform.tfvars` file to specify a larger `nomad_client_instance_type`. Refer to the AWS https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types[Amazon EC2 Instance Types] guide for details.
+
NOTE: The `builder_instance_type` is only used for CircleCI 1.0 and is disabled by default in section 3.

. In section 3 you can:
.. choose to use 1.0 Builders if your project requires it (by changing the count to `1`)
.. enter proxy details, and enter a prefix if there will be multiple installations within your AWS region – the Services and Nomad client instances will be displayed with this prefix in the AWS console.

.Example tfvars
image::tfvars.png[terraform.tfvars]

Above is an example of the `terraform.tfvars` file you will be editing. The table below shows some of the default settings, and some optional variables that can be used to further customize your cluster. A full list of variables and defaults can be found in the `variables.tf` file in the root of the `enterprise-setup` directory.

Optional vars:

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=3*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="3,3,2"]
|===
| Var
| Description
| Default

| services_instance_type
| Instance type for the centralized services box.  We recommend a m4 instance
| m4.2xlarge

| builder_instance_type
| Instance type for the 1.0 builder machines.  We recommend a r3 instance
| r3.2xlarge

| max_builders_count
| Max number of 1.0 builders
| 2

| nomad_client_instance_type
| Instance type for the nomad clients (2.0 builders). We recommend a XYZ instance
| m4.xlarge

| max_clients_count
| Max number of nomad clients
| 2

| prefix
| Prefix for resource names
| circleci

| enable_nomad
| Provisions a nomad cluster for CircleCi Server v2.x
| 1

| enable_route
| Enable creating a Route53 route for the Services box
| 0

| services_user_data_enabled
| Set to 0 to disable automated installation on Services Box
| 1

| force_destroy_s3_bucket
| Add/Remove ability to forcefully destroy S3 bucket when your installation is shut down
| false

| services_disable_api_termination
| Protect the services instance from API termination. Set to false if you would like to terminate the Services box automatically when your installation is shut down
| true
|===

== Provision Instances
. Save your changes to the `tfvars` file and run the following:
+
```shell
terraform plan
```

. To provision your instances, run the following:
+
```shell
terraform apply
```
You will be asked to confirm if you wish to go ahead by typing `yes`.

. An IP address will be provided at the end of the Terraform output. Visit this IP to carry on the install process.
// explain what to do if this step fails

== Access Your Installation
. You will see a browser-specific SSL/TLS info box. This is just to inform you that on the next screen your browser might tell you the connection to the admin console is unsafe, but you can be confident it is secure. Click Continue to Setup and proceed to your installation IP.
+
.SSL Security
image::browser-warning.png[SSL Security]

. Enter your hostname – this can be your domain name or public IP of the Services Machine instance. At this time you can also upload your SSL public key and certificate if you have them. To proceed without providing these click Use Self-Signed Cert – choosing this option will mean you will see security warnings each time you visit the Management Console.
+
.Hostname
image::secure-management-console.png[Hostname]

. Upload your license.

. Decide how to secure the Management Console. You have three options:
.. Anonymous admin access to the console, anyone on port 8800 can access (not recommended)
.. Set a password that can be used to securely access the Management Console (recommended)
.. Use your existing directory-based authentication system (for example, LDAP)
+
.Admin Password
image::admin-password.png[Secure the Management Console]

. Your CircleCI installation will be put through a set of preflight checks, once they have completed, scroll down and click Continue.
//what should admins do if not all these checks pass
+
.Preflight Checks
image::preflight.png[Preflight Checks]

== Installation Setup
You should now be on the Management Console settings page (your-circleci-hostname.com:8800).

WARNING: You can make changes to the settings on this page at any time but changes here will require *downtime* while the service is restarted. Some settings are covered in more detail in out Operations Guide.

. The Hostname field should be pre-populated from earlier in the install process, but if you skipped that step, enter your domain or public IP of the Services machine instance. You can check this has been entered correctly by clicking Test Hostname Resolution.

. The Services section is only used when externalizing services. Externalization is available with a Platinum service contract. Contact support@circleci.com if you would like to find out more.
+
.External Services
image::hostname-services.png[Hostname and Services Settings]

. Under Execution Engines, only select 1.0 Builders if you require them for a legacy project – most users will leave this unchecked.

. Select Cluster in the 2.0 Builders Configuration section. The Single box option will run jobs on the Services machine, rather than a dedicated instance, so is only suitable for trialling the system, or for some small teams.
+
.1.0 and 2.0 Builders
image::builders.png[Execution Engine]

. Register CircleCI as a new OAuth application in GitHub.com or GitHub Enterprise by following the instructions provided onscreen.
+
NOTE: If you get an "Unknown error authenticating via GitHub. Try again, or contact us." message, try using `http:` instead of `https:` for the Homepage URL and callback URL.

. Copy the Client ID and Secret from GitHub and paste it into the relevant fields, then click Test Authentication.

. If you are using GitHub.com, move on to the next step. If using Github Enterprise, you will also need to supply an API Token so we can verify your organization. To provide this, complete the following from your GitHub Enterprise dashboard:
.. Navigate to Personal Settings (top right) > Developer Settings > Personal Access Tokens.
.. Click “generate new token”. Name the token appropriately to prevent accidental deletion. Do not tick any of the checkboxes, we only require the default public read-level access so no extra permissions are required. We recommend this token should be shared across your organization rather than being owned by a single user.
.. Copy the new token and paste it into the GitHub Enterprise Default API Token field.
+
.Enter Github Enterprise Token
image::ghe_token.png[Github Integration]

. If you wish to use LDAP authentication for your installation, enter the required details in the LDAP section. For a detailed runthrough of LDAP settings, see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/authentication/#ldap[LDAP authentication guide]

. We recommend using an SSL certificate and key for your install. You can submit these in the Privacy section if this step was missed during the installation.
+
.Privacy Settings
image::privacy.png[]

. We recommend using S3 for storage and all required fields for Storage are pre-populated. The IAM user, as referred to in the <<aws-prereq#planning,planning>> section of this document, is used here.
+
.Storage Options
image::storage.png[]

. Complete enhanced AWS Integration options.
// explain enhanced AWS integration 1.0 or just say ignore

. Complete the Email section if you wish to configure your own email server for sending build update emails. Leave this section is you wish to use our default email server.
+
NOTE: Due to an issue with our third party tooling, Replicated, the Test SMTP Authentication button is not currently working

. Configure VM service if you plan to use https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/building-docker-images/[Remote Docker] or `machine` executor (Linux/Windows) features. We recommend using an IAM instance profile for authentication, as described in the <<aws-prereq#planning,planning>> section of this document. With this section completed, instances will automatically be provisioned to execute jobs in Remote Docker or use the `machine` executor. To use the Windows `machine` executor you will need to https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/vm-service/#creating-a-windows-ami[build an image]. For more information on VM Service and creating custom AMIs for remote Docker and `machine` executor jobs, see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/vm-service/#section=server-administration[VM service guide].
+
You can preallocate instances to always be up and running, reducing the time taken for Remote Docker and `machine` executor jobs to start. If preallocation is set, a cron job will cycle through your preallocated instances once per day to prevent them getting into a bad/dead state.
+
CAUTION: If Docker Layer Caching (DLC) is to be used, VM preallocation should be set to `0`, forcing containers to be spun up on-demand for both `machine` and Remote Docker. It is worth noting here that if these fields are **not** set to `0` but all preallocated instances are in use, DLC will work correctly, as if preallocation was set to `0`.

. If you wish to use AWS Cloudwatch or Datadog for collating metrics for your installation, set this up here. For more information see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/monitoring/[Monitoring guidance]:
+
.Metrics
image::metrics_setup.png[]
+
You can also customize the metrics received through Telegraf. For more on this see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/monitoring/#custom-metrics[Custom Metics] guide.

. Artifacts persist data after a job is completed, and may be used for longer-term storage of your build process outputs. By default, CircleCI Server only allows approved types to be served. This is to protect users from uploading, and potentially executing malicious content. The **Artifacts** setting allows you to override this protection. For more information on safe/unsafe types see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/build-artifacts/[Build Artifacts guidance].

. After agreeing to the License Agreement and saving your settings, select Restart Now from the popup. You will then be redirected to start CircleCI and view the Management Console Dashboard. It will take a few minutes to download all of the necessary Docker containers.

NOTE: If the Management Console reports `Failure reported from operator: no such image` click Start again and it should continue.

== Validate Your Installation

. When the application is started, select Open to launch CircleCI in your browser, and sign up/log in to your CircleCI installation and start running 2.0 builds! You will become the Administrator at this point as you are the first person to sign in. Have a look at our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/getting-started/#section=getting-started[Getting Started] guide to start adding projects.
//<!--add info on making users administrators etc. to user management section of ops guide and put a link here-->
+
.Start CircleCI from your Dashboard
image::dashboard.png[]

. After build containers have started and images have been downloaded, the first build should begin immediately. If there are no updates after around **15 minutes**, and you have clicked the Refresh button, contact https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us[CircleCI support] for assistance.

. Next, use https://github.com/circleci/realitycheck[our realitycheck repo] to check basic CircleCI functionality.

. If you're unable to run your first builds successfully please start with our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/troubleshooting[Troubleshooting] guide for general troubleshooting topics, and our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/nomad[Introduction to Nomad Cluster Operation] for information about how to check the status of Builders in your installation.
