jekyll/_cci2/deployment-integrations.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Configuring Deploys"
short-title: "Configuring Deploys"
---


CircleCI can be configured to deploy to virtually any service. This document provides instructions and examples for the following platforms:

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview
{:.no_toc}

To deploy your application,
add a [job]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/jobs-steps/#jobs-overview) to your `.circleci/config.yml` file.
You will also need to [add environment variables]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) and [add SSH keys]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/add-ssh-key/).

Below is a simple example of deploying a Rails application to Heroku. The full application can be found in the [Sequential Job branch of the CircleCI Demo Workflows repository](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/circleci-demo-workflows/tree/sequential-branch-filter).

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/ruby:2.4-node-jessie
      - image: circleci/postgres:9.4.12-alpine
    working_directory: ~/circleci-demo-workflows
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: bundle install --path vendor/bundle  # install dependencies
      - run: bundle exec rake db:create db:schema:load  # setup database
      - run:
          name: Run tests
          command: rake

  deploy:
    machine:
        enabled: true
    working_directory: ~/circleci-demo-workflows
    environment:
      HEROKU_APP: "sleepy-refuge-55486"
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Deploy Master to Heroku
          command: |
            git push https://heroku:$HEROKU_API_KEY@git.heroku.com/$HEROKU_APP.git master

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-and-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: sequential-branch-filter
```

The configuration uses [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/) to deploy only if the `sequential-branch-filter` branch is checked out and the `build` job has run. If your deploy job uses any output from previous jobs, you can share that data by [using workspaces]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/#using-workspaces-to-share-data-among-jobs). For more information on conditional deploys, see [Using Contexts and Filtering in your Workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/#using-contexts-and-filtering-in-your-workflows).

## AWS

1. As a best security practice,
create a new [IAM user](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/details/manage-users/) specifically for CircleCI.

2. Add your [AWS access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys) to CircleCI
as either [project environment variables](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) or [context environment variables](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-context).
Store your Access Key ID in a variable called `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
and your Secret Access Key in a variable called `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.

3. In your `.circleci/config.yml` file,
create a new `deploy` job.
In the `deploy` job,
add a step to install `awscli` in your primary container.

4. Install `awscli` in your primary container
by following the [AWS CLI documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html).

5. [Use the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-using.html)
to deploy your application to S3
or perform other AWS operations.
The example below shows
how CircleCI deploys [this documentation site](https://github.com/circleci/circleci-docs) to S3.
Note the use of [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/)
to deploy only if the build job passes
and the current branch is `master`.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  # build job omitted for brevity
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/python:2.7-jessie
    working_directory: ~/circleci-docs
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Install awscli
          command: sudo pip install awscli
      - run:
          name: Deploy to S3
          command: aws s3 sync jekyll/_site/docs s3://circle-production-static-site/docs/ --delete

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

For a complete list of AWS CLI commands and options,
see the [AWS CLI Command Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/)

## Azure

To deploy to Azure, use a similar job to the above example that uses an appropriate command. If pushing to your repo is required, see the [Adding Read/Write Deployment Keys to GitHub or Bitbucket]( {{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/gh-bb-integration/) section of the Github and Bitbucket Integration document for instructions. Then, configure the Azure Web App to use your production branch.

## Capistrano

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  #  build and test jobs go here
  deploy-job:
    docker:
      - image: image pinned to a version and tag
    working_directory: ~/repo
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Bundle Install
          command: bundle check || bundle install
      - run:
          name: Deploy to AWS if tests pass and branch is Master
          command: bundle exec cap production deploy
workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build-job
      - deploy-job:
          requires:
            - build-job
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

## Cloud Foundry

Cloud Foundry deployments require the Cloud Foundry CLI. Be sure to match the architecture to your Docker image (the commands below assume you're using a Debian-based image).  This example pattern implements "Blue-Green" deployments using Cloud Foundry's map-route/unmap-route commands, which is an optional feature above and beyond a basic `cf push`.

### Install the CLI
{:.no_toc}

```
- run:
    name: Setup CF CLI
    command: |
      curl -v -L -o cf-cli_amd64.deb 'https://cli.run.pivotal.io/stable?release=debian64&source=github'
      sudo dpkg -i cf-cli_amd64.deb
      cf -v
      cf api https://api.run.pivotal.io  # alternately target your private Cloud Foundry deployment
      cf auth "$CF_USER" "$CF_PASSWORD"
      cf target -o "$CF_ORG" -s "$CF_SPACE"
```

### Dark Deployment
{:.no_toc}

This is the first step in a Blue-Green deployment, pushing the application to non-production routes.

```
- run:
    name: CF Deploy
    command: |
      # push artifacts on "dark" subdomain, not yet starting so we can attach environment variables
      cf push --no-start app-name-dark -f manifest.yml -p application.jar -n dark -d example.com
      # Pass CircleCI variables to Cloud Foundry (optional)
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_build_num ${CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_commit ${CIRCLE_SHA1}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_workflow_guid ${CIRCLE_WORKFLOW_ID}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_user ${CIRCLE_PROJECT_USERNAME}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_repo ${CIRCLE_PROJECT_REPONAME}
      # Start the application
      cf start app-name-dark
      # Ensure dark route is exclusive to dark app
      cf unmap-route app-name example.com -n dark || echo "Dark Route Already exclusive"
```

### Live Deployment
{:.no_toc}

Until now, the previously pushed "app-name" has not changed.  The final step is to route the production URL to our dark application, stop traffic to the previous version, and rename the applications.

```
- run:
    name: Re-route live Domain to latest
    command: |
      # Send "real" url to new version
      cf map-route app-name-dark example.com -n www
      # Stop sending traffic to previous version
      cf unmap-route app-name example.com -n www
      # stop previous version
      cf stop app-name
      # delete previous version
      cf delete app-name -f
      # Switch name of "dark" version to claim correct name
      cf rename app-name-dark app-name
```

### Manual Approval
{:.no_toc}

For additional control or validation, you can add a manual "hold" step between the dark and live steps as shown in the sample workflow below.

```
workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - test
      - dark-deploy:
          requires:
            - test
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
      - hold:
          type: approval
          requires:
            - dark-deploy
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
      - live-deploy:
          requires:
            - hold
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

## Firebase

Add firebase-tools to the project's devDependencies since attempting to install firebase-tools globally in CircleCI will not work.

```
npm install --save-dev firebase-tools
```

Generate a Firebase CLI token using the following command:

```
firebase login:ci
```

Add the generated token to the CircleCI project's environment variables as $FIREBASE_DEPLOY_TOKEN.

Add the below to the project's `config.yml` file

```

     deploy-job:
       docker:
         - image: my-image-version-tag
       working_directory: /tmp/my-project
       steps:
         - run:
             name: Deploy Master to Firebase
             command: ./node_modules/.bin/firebase deploy --token=$FIREBASE_DEPLOY_TOKEN

    workflows:
      version: 2

      -deploy:
        jobs:
          - build-job
          - deploy-job:
              requires:
                - build-job
              filters:
                branches:
                  only: master

```

If using Google Cloud Functions with Firebase, instruct CircleCI to navigate to the folder where the Google Cloud Functions are held (in this case 'functions') and run npm install by adding the below to `config.yml`:


```
   - run: cd functions && npm install
```

## Google Cloud

Before deploying to Google Cloud Platform,
you will have to authorize the Google Cloud SDK
and set default configuration settings.
Refer to the [Authorizing the Google Cloud SDK]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/google-auth/) document for full details.

In the following example, if `build-job` passes and the current branch was the master branch, CircleCI runs `deploy.sh` to do the actual deployment work.

```

     deploy-job:
       docker:
         - image: my-image-version-tag
       working_directory: /tmp/my-project  
       steps:
         - run:
             name: Deploy Master to GKE
             command: ./deploy.sh

    workflows:
      version: 2
      build-deploy:
        jobs:
          - build-job
          - deploy-job:
              requires:
                - build-job
              filters:
                branches:
                  only: master

```

The deployment script pushes the newly created Docker image out to the registry, then updates the K8s deployment to use the
new image with a `gcloud` command to handle authentication and push the image all at
once:

```
sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud docker -- push us.gcr.io/${PROJECT_NAME}/hello
```

The new image is now available in GCR for the GCP infrastructure to
access. Then, change permissions:

```
sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /home/ubuntu/.kube
```

Finally, utilize the patch subcommand of `kubectl` to find the line that specifies the image to use for our container,
and replaces it with the image tag of the image just built. The K8s deployment
then intelligently upgrades the cluster by shutting down old containers and
starting up-to-date ones.

```
kubectl patch deployment docker-hello-google -p '{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"docker-hello-google","image":"us.gcr.io/circle-ctl-test/hello:'"$CIRCLE_SHA1"'"}]}}}}'
```

The full `deploy.sh` file is available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/circleci/docker-hello-google/blob/master/deploy.sh).

## Heroku

[Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) is a popular platform
for hosting applications in the cloud.
To configure CircleCI
to deploy your application to Heroku,
follow the steps below.

1. Create a Heroku account
and follow the [Getting Started on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/start) documentation
to set up a project in your chosen language.

2. Add the name of your Heroku application and your Heroku API key as environment variables.
See [Adding Project Environment Variables]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) for instructions.
In this example, these variables are defined as `HEROKU_APP_NAME` and `HEROKU_API_KEY`, respectively.

4. In your `.circleci/config.yml`,
create a `deploy` job
and add an executor type.
See [Choosing an Executor Type]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/executor-types/) for instructions.

5. Checkout your code
and add a command
to deploy the master branch to Heroku using git.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    ...
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: buildpack-deps:trusty
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Deploy Master to Heroku
          command: |
            git push https://heroku:$HEROKU_API_KEY@git.heroku.com/$HEROKU_APP_NAME.git master

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

## NPM

Setting up CircleCI to publish packages to the npm registry makes it easy for project collaborators to release new package versions in a consistent and predictable way.

1.  Obtain the npm authToken for the account that you wish to use to publish the package.

    You can do that by logging in to npm (`npm login`). This will save the
    authToken to the `~/.npmrc` file. Look for the following line:

    ```
    //registry.npmjs.org/:_authToken=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
    ```

    In this case, the authToken is `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`.

2.  Go to your [project settings]( {{ site.baseurl }}/1.0/environment-variables/#setting-environment-variables-for-all-commands-without-adding-them-to-git), and set the `NPM_TOKEN` variable to the
    obtained authToken.

3.  Configure CircleCI to add the authToken to `~/.npmrc`, run `npm publish` and only for versioned tags:

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  publish:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: echo "//registry.npmjs.org/:_authToken=$NPM_TOKEN" >> ~/.npmrc
      - run: npm publish

workflows:
  version: 2
  tagged-build:
    jobs:
      - publish:
          filters:
            tags:
              only: /v[0-9]+(\.[0-9]+)*/
```

4.  When you want to publish a new version to npm, run `npm version` to create a new version:

    ```
    npm version 10.0.1
    ```

    This will update the `package.json` file and creates a tagged Git commit.
    Next, push the commit with tags:

    ```
    git push --follow-tags
    ```
5.  If tests passed, CircleCI will publish the package to npm automatically.

## SSH

To configure CircleCI
to deploy your application over SSH,
follow the steps below.

1. Add the SSH key for the server
to which you're deploying.
For instructions, see the [Adding an SSH Key to CircleCI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/add-ssh-key/) document.

2. Add the SSH username and SSH hostname of your build VM as environment variables.
For instructions, see the [Adding Project Environment Variables]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) document.
In this example, these variables are defined as `SSH_USER` and `SSH_HOST`, respectively.

3. In your `.circleci/config.yml`,
create a `deploy` job
and add a command
to deploy the master branch.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    #...
  deploy:
    machine:
      enabled: true
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Deploy Over SSH
          command: |
            ssh $SSH_USER@$SSH_HOST "<remote deploy command>"

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-and-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

Commit message:

Migrate ECS/ECR document (#2776)
* new document

* create outline

* finish outline

* a couple more revisions

* write doc description and overview

* add prerequisites section

* put important link closer to start

* update verb styling in overview

* important information first

* remove words

* minor revisions

* replace configuration

* better title

* add first few steps

* add link to manual image creation doc

* reduce unnecessary multi-line command

* add BTD section for Docker image

* add missing article

* change heading sizes

* wrap up build job and add image section of deploy job

* add link to key

* finish deploy job section

* slight edits

* add setup steps to deploy job

* install awscli & add caching steps

* adjust description

* add raw tags to escape curly braces

* load image, set env vars, and push to ECR

* add all configuration

* fix headings

* make phases match jobs

* add link to new doc from deployment integrations

* add sidenav link

* fix typo

jekyll/_cci2/deployment-integrations.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Configuring Deploys"
short-title: "Configuring Deploys"
---


CircleCI can be configured to deploy to virtually any service. This document provides instructions and examples for the following platforms:

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview
{:.no_toc}

To deploy your application,
add a [job]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/jobs-steps/#jobs-overview) to your `.circleci/config.yml` file.
You will also need to [add environment variables]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) and [add SSH keys]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/add-ssh-key/).

Below is a simple example of deploying a Rails application to Heroku. The full application can be found in the [Sequential Job branch of the CircleCI Demo Workflows repository](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/circleci-demo-workflows/tree/sequential-branch-filter).

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/ruby:2.4-node-jessie
      - image: circleci/postgres:9.4.12-alpine
    working_directory: ~/circleci-demo-workflows
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: bundle install --path vendor/bundle  # install dependencies
      - run: bundle exec rake db:create db:schema:load  # setup database
      - run:
          name: Run tests
          command: rake

  deploy:
    machine:
        enabled: true
    working_directory: ~/circleci-demo-workflows
    environment:
      HEROKU_APP: "sleepy-refuge-55486"
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Deploy Master to Heroku
          command: |
            git push https://heroku:$HEROKU_API_KEY@git.heroku.com/$HEROKU_APP.git master

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-and-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: sequential-branch-filter
```

The configuration uses [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/) to deploy only if the `sequential-branch-filter` branch is checked out and the `build` job has run. If your deploy job uses any output from previous jobs, you can share that data by [using workspaces]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/#using-workspaces-to-share-data-among-jobs). For more information on conditional deploys, see [Using Contexts and Filtering in your Workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/#using-contexts-and-filtering-in-your-workflows).

## AWS

To deploy to AWS S3,
follow the steps below.
To deploy to AWS ECS from ECR,
see the [Deploying to AWS ECS/ECR document]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/ecs-ecr/).

1. As a best security practice,
create a new [IAM user](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/details/manage-users/) specifically for CircleCI.

2. Add your [AWS access keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys) to CircleCI
as either [project environment variables](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) or [context environment variables](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-context).
Store your Access Key ID in a variable called `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
and your Secret Access Key in a variable called `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`.

3. In your `.circleci/config.yml` file,
create a new `deploy` job.
In the `deploy` job,
add a step to install `awscli` in your primary container.

4. Install `awscli` in your primary container
by following the [AWS CLI documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html).

5. [Use the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-using.html)
to deploy your application to S3
or perform other AWS operations.
The example below shows
how CircleCI deploys [this documentation site](https://github.com/circleci/circleci-docs) to S3.
Note the use of [workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows/)
to deploy only if the build job passes
and the current branch is `master`.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  # build job omitted for brevity
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/python:2.7-jessie
    working_directory: ~/circleci-docs
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Install awscli
          command: sudo pip install awscli
      - run:
          name: Deploy to S3
          command: aws s3 sync jekyll/_site/docs s3://circle-production-static-site/docs/ --delete

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

For a complete list of AWS CLI commands and options,
see the [AWS CLI Command Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/).

## Azure

To deploy to Azure, use a similar job to the above example that uses an appropriate command. If pushing to your repo is required, see the [Adding Read/Write Deployment Keys to GitHub or Bitbucket]( {{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/gh-bb-integration/) section of the Github and Bitbucket Integration document for instructions. Then, configure the Azure Web App to use your production branch.

## Capistrano

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  #  build and test jobs go here
  deploy-job:
    docker:
      - image: image pinned to a version and tag
    working_directory: ~/repo
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Bundle Install
          command: bundle check || bundle install
      - run:
          name: Deploy to AWS if tests pass and branch is Master
          command: bundle exec cap production deploy
workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build-job
      - deploy-job:
          requires:
            - build-job
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

## Cloud Foundry

Cloud Foundry deployments require the Cloud Foundry CLI. Be sure to match the architecture to your Docker image (the commands below assume you're using a Debian-based image).  This example pattern implements "Blue-Green" deployments using Cloud Foundry's map-route/unmap-route commands, which is an optional feature above and beyond a basic `cf push`.

### Install the CLI
{:.no_toc}

```
- run:
    name: Setup CF CLI
    command: |
      curl -v -L -o cf-cli_amd64.deb 'https://cli.run.pivotal.io/stable?release=debian64&source=github'
      sudo dpkg -i cf-cli_amd64.deb
      cf -v
      cf api https://api.run.pivotal.io  # alternately target your private Cloud Foundry deployment
      cf auth "$CF_USER" "$CF_PASSWORD"
      cf target -o "$CF_ORG" -s "$CF_SPACE"
```

### Dark Deployment
{:.no_toc}

This is the first step in a Blue-Green deployment, pushing the application to non-production routes.

```
- run:
    name: CF Deploy
    command: |
      # push artifacts on "dark" subdomain, not yet starting so we can attach environment variables
      cf push --no-start app-name-dark -f manifest.yml -p application.jar -n dark -d example.com
      # Pass CircleCI variables to Cloud Foundry (optional)
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_build_num ${CIRCLE_BUILD_NUM}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_commit ${CIRCLE_SHA1}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_workflow_guid ${CIRCLE_WORKFLOW_ID}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_user ${CIRCLE_PROJECT_USERNAME}
      cf set-env app-name-dark circle_repo ${CIRCLE_PROJECT_REPONAME}
      # Start the application
      cf start app-name-dark
      # Ensure dark route is exclusive to dark app
      cf unmap-route app-name example.com -n dark || echo "Dark Route Already exclusive"
```

### Live Deployment
{:.no_toc}

Until now, the previously pushed "app-name" has not changed.  The final step is to route the production URL to our dark application, stop traffic to the previous version, and rename the applications.

```
- run:
    name: Re-route live Domain to latest
    command: |
      # Send "real" url to new version
      cf map-route app-name-dark example.com -n www
      # Stop sending traffic to previous version
      cf unmap-route app-name example.com -n www
      # stop previous version
      cf stop app-name
      # delete previous version
      cf delete app-name -f
      # Switch name of "dark" version to claim correct name
      cf rename app-name-dark app-name
```

### Manual Approval
{:.no_toc}

For additional control or validation, you can add a manual "hold" step between the dark and live steps as shown in the sample workflow below.

```
workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - test
      - dark-deploy:
          requires:
            - test
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
      - hold:
          type: approval
          requires:
            - dark-deploy
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
      - live-deploy:
          requires:
            - hold
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

## Firebase

Add firebase-tools to the project's devDependencies since attempting to install firebase-tools globally in CircleCI will not work.

```
npm install --save-dev firebase-tools
```

Generate a Firebase CLI token using the following command:

```
firebase login:ci
```

Add the generated token to the CircleCI project's environment variables as $FIREBASE_DEPLOY_TOKEN.

Add the below to the project's `config.yml` file

```

     deploy-job:
       docker:
         - image: my-image-version-tag
       working_directory: /tmp/my-project
       steps:
         - run:
             name: Deploy Master to Firebase
             command: ./node_modules/.bin/firebase deploy --token=$FIREBASE_DEPLOY_TOKEN

    workflows:
      version: 2

      -deploy:
        jobs:
          - build-job
          - deploy-job:
              requires:
                - build-job
              filters:
                branches:
                  only: master

```

If using Google Cloud Functions with Firebase, instruct CircleCI to navigate to the folder where the Google Cloud Functions are held (in this case 'functions') and run npm install by adding the below to `config.yml`:


```
   - run: cd functions && npm install
```

## Google Cloud

Before deploying to Google Cloud Platform,
you will have to authorize the Google Cloud SDK
and set default configuration settings.
Refer to the [Authorizing the Google Cloud SDK]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/google-auth/) document for full details.

In the following example, if `build-job` passes and the current branch was the master branch, CircleCI runs `deploy.sh` to do the actual deployment work.

```

     deploy-job:
       docker:
         - image: my-image-version-tag
       working_directory: /tmp/my-project  
       steps:
         - run:
             name: Deploy Master to GKE
             command: ./deploy.sh

    workflows:
      version: 2
      build-deploy:
        jobs:
          - build-job
          - deploy-job:
              requires:
                - build-job
              filters:
                branches:
                  only: master

```

The deployment script pushes the newly created Docker image out to the registry, then updates the K8s deployment to use the
new image with a `gcloud` command to handle authentication and push the image all at
once:

```
sudo /opt/google-cloud-sdk/bin/gcloud docker -- push us.gcr.io/${PROJECT_NAME}/hello
```

The new image is now available in GCR for the GCP infrastructure to
access. Then, change permissions:

```
sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /home/ubuntu/.kube
```

Finally, utilize the patch subcommand of `kubectl` to find the line that specifies the image to use for our container,
and replaces it with the image tag of the image just built. The K8s deployment
then intelligently upgrades the cluster by shutting down old containers and
starting up-to-date ones.

```
kubectl patch deployment docker-hello-google -p '{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"docker-hello-google","image":"us.gcr.io/circle-ctl-test/hello:'"$CIRCLE_SHA1"'"}]}}}}'
```

The full `deploy.sh` file is available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/circleci/docker-hello-google/blob/master/deploy.sh).

## Heroku

[Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) is a popular platform
for hosting applications in the cloud.
To configure CircleCI
to deploy your application to Heroku,
follow the steps below.

1. Create a Heroku account
and follow the [Getting Started on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/start) documentation
to set up a project in your chosen language.

2. Add the name of your Heroku application and your Heroku API key as environment variables.
See [Adding Project Environment Variables]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) for instructions.
In this example, these variables are defined as `HEROKU_APP_NAME` and `HEROKU_API_KEY`, respectively.

4. In your `.circleci/config.yml`,
create a `deploy` job
and add an executor type.
See [Choosing an Executor Type]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/executor-types/) for instructions.

5. Checkout your code
and add a command
to deploy the master branch to Heroku using git.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    ...
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: buildpack-deps:trusty
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Deploy Master to Heroku
          command: |
            git push https://heroku:$HEROKU_API_KEY@git.heroku.com/$HEROKU_APP_NAME.git master

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```

## NPM

Setting up CircleCI to publish packages to the npm registry makes it easy for project collaborators to release new package versions in a consistent and predictable way.

1.  Obtain the npm authToken for the account that you wish to use to publish the package.

    You can do that by logging in to npm (`npm login`). This will save the
    authToken to the `~/.npmrc` file. Look for the following line:

    ```
    //registry.npmjs.org/:_authToken=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
    ```

    In this case, the authToken is `00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000`.

2.  Go to your [project settings]( {{ site.baseurl }}/1.0/environment-variables/#setting-environment-variables-for-all-commands-without-adding-them-to-git), and set the `NPM_TOKEN` variable to the
    obtained authToken.

3.  Configure CircleCI to add the authToken to `~/.npmrc`, run `npm publish` and only for versioned tags:

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  publish:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: echo "//registry.npmjs.org/:_authToken=$NPM_TOKEN" >> ~/.npmrc
      - run: npm publish

workflows:
  version: 2
  tagged-build:
    jobs:
      - publish:
          filters:
            tags:
              only: /v[0-9]+(\.[0-9]+)*/
```

4.  When you want to publish a new version to npm, run `npm version` to create a new version:

    ```
    npm version 10.0.1
    ```

    This will update the `package.json` file and creates a tagged Git commit.
    Next, push the commit with tags:

    ```
    git push --follow-tags
    ```
5.  If tests passed, CircleCI will publish the package to npm automatically.

## SSH

To configure CircleCI
to deploy your application over SSH,
follow the steps below.

1. Add the SSH key for the server
to which you're deploying.
For instructions, see the [Adding an SSH Key to CircleCI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/add-ssh-key/) document.

2. Add the SSH username and SSH hostname of your build VM as environment variables.
For instructions, see the [Adding Project Environment Variables]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project) document.
In this example, these variables are defined as `SSH_USER` and `SSH_HOST`, respectively.

3. In your `.circleci/config.yml`,
create a `deploy` job
and add a command
to deploy the master branch.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    #...
  deploy:
    machine:
      enabled: true
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Deploy Over SSH
          command: |
            ssh $SSH_USER@$SSH_HOST "<remote deploy command>"

workflows:
  version: 2
  build-and-deploy:
    jobs:
      - build
      - deploy:
          requires:
            - build
          filters:
            branches:
              only: master
```
