jekyll/_cci2/google-auth.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: Authorizing the Google Cloud SDK
description: How to authorize the Google Cloud SDK
categories: [deploying]
order: 100
---

This document explains
how to install and authorize the [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) in your primary container.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview
{:.no_toc}

The Google Cloud SDK is a powerful set of tools
that can be used to access Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services
like Google Compute Engine and Google Kubernetes Engine.
On CircleCI, the Google Cloud SDK is recommended
to deploy your application to GCP products.

## Prerequisites
{:.no_toc}

- A CircleCI 2.0 project.
- A GCP project.

### Installing the Google Cloud SDK

If Debian is an acceptable operating system for your primary container,
consider using Google's base Docker image.
You can find this image on DockerHub as [`google/cloud-sdk`](https://hub.docker.com/r/google/cloud-sdk/).

Otherwise, follow the [Google Cloud SDK installation instructions](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) for your base image's operating system.

### Creating and Storing a Service Account

Before you can use any tools in the Google Cloud SDK,
you must authorize `gcloud`.
Google offers two types of authorization: user accounts and service accounts.
Because you are installing the Cloud SDK on CircleCI,
the service account is the appropriate choice.

1. Create a service account
by following Steps 1-3 of [Google's instructions](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/authorizing#authorizing_with_a_service_account).
Remember to download the JSON-formatted key file.

2. Add the key file to CircleCI as a [project environment variable]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project).
In this example, the variable is named `GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY`.
Using this particular name is not required,
but it will be used throughout the examples in this document.

3. For convenience, add two more environment variables to your CircleCI project:
    - `GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID`: the ID of your GCP project.
    - `GOOGLE_COMPUTE_ZONE`: the default [compute zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/).

### Authenticating to Google Container Registry

Depending on the [base Docker image you chose](#installing-the-google-cloud-sdk),
you may have to authenticate to the Google Container Registry.

If you are using Google's public image (`google/cloud-sdk`),
no authentication is needed.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: google/cloud-sdk
```

If you are using a custom image,
you must authenticate to GCR.
Use the [`auth` key](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#docker)
to specify credentials.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: gcr.io/project/<image-name>
        auth:
          username: _json_key  # default username when using a JSON key file to authenticate
          password: $GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY  # JSON service account you created
```

### Authorizing the Google Cloud SDK

Use `gcloud` to authorize the Google Cloud SDK
and set several default settings.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: google/cloud-sdk
    steps:
      - run: |
          echo $GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY | sudo gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file=-
          sudo gcloud --quiet config set project ${GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID}
          sudo gcloud --quiet config set compute/zone ${GOOGLE_COMPUTE_ZONE}
```

**Note:**
If you are using a custom base image,
ensure that you have the most recent components
by adding the following command before authorizing the SDK.

```bash
sudo gcloud --quiet components update
```

Commit message:

Link to IAM docs for describing GCR permissions.
In some cases the default permissions of the service account for GCR may
not be sufficient for pushing containers. Add links to IAM console and
permission docs.

jekyll/_cci2/google-auth.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: Authorizing the Google Cloud SDK
description: How to authorize the Google Cloud SDK
categories: [deploying]
order: 100
---

This document explains
how to install and authorize the [Google Cloud SDK](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) in your primary container.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Overview
{:.no_toc}

The Google Cloud SDK is a powerful set of tools
that can be used to access Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services
like Google Compute Engine and Google Kubernetes Engine.
On CircleCI, the Google Cloud SDK is recommended
to deploy your application to GCP products.

## Prerequisites
{:.no_toc}

- A CircleCI 2.0 project.
- A GCP project.

### Installing the Google Cloud SDK

If Debian is an acceptable operating system for your primary container,
consider using Google's base Docker image.
You can find this image on DockerHub as [`google/cloud-sdk`](https://hub.docker.com/r/google/cloud-sdk/).

Otherwise, follow the [Google Cloud SDK installation instructions](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) for your base image's operating system.

### Creating and Storing a Service Account

Before you can use any tools in the Google Cloud SDK,
you must authorize `gcloud`.
Google offers two types of authorization: user accounts and service accounts.
Because you are installing the Cloud SDK on CircleCI,
the service account is the appropriate choice.

1. Create a service account
by following Steps 1-3 of [Google's instructions](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/authorizing#authorizing_with_a_service_account).
Remember to download the JSON-formatted key file.

2. Add the key file to CircleCI as a [project environment variable]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project).
In this example, the variable is named `GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY`.
Using this particular name is not required,
but it will be used throughout the examples in this document.

3. For convenience, add two more environment variables to your CircleCI project:
    - `GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID`: the ID of your GCP project.
    - `GOOGLE_COMPUTE_ZONE`: the default [compute zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/).

#### Adding Granular Permissions

If you are having issues pushing container images to GCR you may need more
granular permissions than the default `service account` provides. You can grant
permission changes in the Cloud Storage [IAM Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam/project).

Refer to the Cloud Storage [permission
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control/iam-permissions)
to learn more about Identity and Access Management (IAM) permissions.

### Authenticating to Google Container Registry

Depending on the [base Docker image you chose](#installing-the-google-cloud-sdk),
you may have to authenticate to the Google Container Registry.

If you are using Google's public image (`google/cloud-sdk`),
no authentication is needed.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: google/cloud-sdk
```

If you are using a custom image,
you must authenticate to GCR.
Use the [`auth` key](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#docker)
to specify credentials.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: gcr.io/project/<image-name>
        auth:
          username: _json_key  # default username when using a JSON key file to authenticate
          password: $GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY  # JSON service account you created
```

### Authorizing the Google Cloud SDK

Use `gcloud` to authorize the Google Cloud SDK
and set several default settings.

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  deploy:
    docker:
      - image: google/cloud-sdk
    steps:
      - run: |
          echo $GCLOUD_SERVICE_KEY | sudo gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file=-
          sudo gcloud --quiet config set project ${GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID}
          sudo gcloud --quiet config set compute/zone ${GOOGLE_COMPUTE_ZONE}
```

**Note:**
If you are using a custom base image,
ensure that you have the most recent components
by adding the following command before authorizing the SDK.

```bash
sudo gcloud --quiet components update
```
