jekyll/_cci2/hello-world.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Hello World"
short-title: "Hello World"
description: "First project on CircleCI 2.0"
categories: [getting-started]
order: 4
---

This document describes how to configure your Linux, Android or macOS project to run on CircleCI 2.0 after you [sign up]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/first-steps/).  

1. Create a directory called `.circleci` in the root directory of your local GitHub or Bitbucket code repository. 

2. Add a [`config.yml`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/) file in the `.circleci` directory with the following lines, replacing `node:4.8.2` with any [Docker image]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/circleci-images/) you want: 

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker: # use the docker executor type; machine and macos executors are also supported
      - image: circleci/node:4.8.2 # the primary container, where your job's commands are run
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      - run: echo "hello world" # run the `echo` command
```

Commit and push the changes to trigger a build. If this is your first project on CircleCI, go to the Projects page, click the **Add Projects** button and then click the **Build Project** button next to your project.

CircleCI checks out your code, prints "Hello World", and posts a green build to the Job page, adding a green checkmark on your commit in GitHub or Bitbucket.

**Note:** If you get a `No Config Found` error, it may be that you used `.yaml` file extension. Be sure to use `.yml` file extension to resolve this error.

## Following Projects

You automatically *follow* any new project that you push to, subscribing you to email notifications and adding the project to your dashboard. You can also manually follow or stop following a project by selecting your org on the Projects page in the CircleCI app, clicking the Add Projects button, and then clicking the button next to the project you want to follow or stop following.

## Org Switching

In the top left, you will find the Org switcher.

![Switch Organization Menu]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/org-centric-ui.png)

If you do not see your project and it is not currently building on CircleCI, check your org in the top left corner of the CircleCI application.  For example, if the top left shows your user `myUser`, only Github projects belonging to `myUser` will be available under `Add Projects`.  If you want to build the Github project `myOrg/orgProject`, you must select `myOrg` on the application Switch Organization menu.

## Next Steps

- See the [Concepts]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/concepts/) document for a summary of 2.0 configuration and the hierarchy of top-level keys in a `.circleci/config.yml` file.

- Refer to the [Workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows) document for examples of orchestrating job runs with parallel, sequential, scheduled, and manual approval workflows.

- Find complete reference information for all keys and pre-built Docker images in the [Configuring CircleCI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/) and [CircleCI Images]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/circleci-images/) documentation, respectively.

Commit message:

Point to iOS tutorial for basic macos setup
For iOS developers who don't work with Docker or Linux, they may not understand that the `Docker` portion of setup does not apply to them. This change points them to the iOS-specific setup instructions for a sample of a `macos` config file.

jekyll/_cci2/hello-world.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Hello World"
short-title: "Hello World"
description: "First project on CircleCI 2.0"
categories: [getting-started]
order: 4
---

This document describes how to configure your Linux, Android or macOS project to run on CircleCI 2.0 after you [sign up]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/first-steps/).  

1. Create a directory called `.circleci` in the root directory of your local GitHub or Bitbucket code repository. 

2. Add a [`config.yml`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/) file in the `.circleci` directory with the following lines. For Docker executors, replace `node:4.8.2` with any [Docker image]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/circleci-images/) you want: 

```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker: # use the docker executor type; machine and macos executors are also supported
      - image: circleci/node:4.8.2 # the primary container, where your job's commands are run
    steps:
      - checkout # check out the code in the project directory
      - run: echo "hello world" # run the `echo` command
```

**Note**: For `macos` executors, some setup is different. If you want to setup for an iOS project, please check out [the iOS tutorial]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/ios-tutorial/) for an example of a simple `macos` config file. 

Commit and push the changes to trigger a build. If this is your first project on CircleCI, go to the Projects page, click the **Add Projects** button and then click the **Build Project** button next to your project.

CircleCI checks out your code, prints "Hello World", and posts a green build to the Job page, adding a green checkmark on your commit in GitHub or Bitbucket.

**Note:** If you get a `No Config Found` error, it may be that you used `.yaml` file extension. Be sure to use `.yml` file extension to resolve this error.

## Following Projects

You automatically *follow* any new project that you push to, subscribing you to email notifications and adding the project to your dashboard. You can also manually follow or stop following a project by selecting your org on the Projects page in the CircleCI app, clicking the Add Projects button, and then clicking the button next to the project you want to follow or stop following.

## Org Switching

In the top left, you will find the Org switcher.

![Switch Organization Menu]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/org-centric-ui.png)

If you do not see your project and it is not currently building on CircleCI, check your org in the top left corner of the CircleCI application.  For example, if the top left shows your user `myUser`, only Github projects belonging to `myUser` will be available under `Add Projects`.  If you want to build the Github project `myOrg/orgProject`, you must select `myOrg` on the application Switch Organization menu.

## Next Steps

- See the [Concepts]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/concepts/) document for a summary of 2.0 configuration and the hierarchy of top-level keys in a `.circleci/config.yml` file.

- Refer to the [Workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows) document for examples of orchestrating job runs with parallel, sequential, scheduled, and manual approval workflows.

- Find complete reference information for all keys and pre-built Docker images in the [Configuring CircleCI]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/) and [CircleCI Images]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/circleci-images/) documentation, respectively.
