jekyll/_cci2/help-and-support.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Help and Support"
short-title: "Help and Support"
description: "A list of possible support options"
categories: [reference]
order: 3
---

If you're here, it's because you couldn't find what you were looking for in the docs. Our apologies!

There are 4 ways to ask for help:

## Check our Support Center

Our [Support Center](https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us) is home to many articles we have written in response to many of the common issues we see and questions we are asked. If we've seen it before, we'll have your answer here.

## Ask on Discuss

Chances are you're not the first person to ask your question. That's why our next recommendation is to search our [community forums](https://discuss.circleci.com/).

If you can't find your question, post it yourself and one of our support engineers -- or another CircleCI user -- will provide some guidance.

## Create a Support Request

If you have a paid account, then you can ask directly for help from our support team. To create a support request, click the  'Support' link in the top right navigation bar, then click 'Get Support'. You can then browse the support center, and click 'Submit a Request' in the top left when ready.

In the form that appears, enter a title for your question, along with a message detailing your problem. You can also attach files if you have a helpful screenshot or cute cat picture.

When you're done, click 'Submit support request', and one of our support engineers will get back to you soon.

## Premium Support

If you know you're going to need a rapid response to problems, then check out our [Premium Support](https://circleci.com/support/premium-support/). You can skip the line for support requests, get critical issues escalated, and access early features of CircleCI.

Commit message:

Change wording to remove paid requirement

jekyll/_cci2/help-and-support.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Help and Support"
short-title: "Help and Support"
description: "A list of possible support options"
categories: [reference]
order: 3
---

If you're here, it's because you couldn't find what you were looking for in the docs. Our apologies!

There are 4 ways to ask for help:

## Check our Support Center

Our [Support Center](https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us) is home to many articles we have written in response to many of the common issues we see and questions we are asked. If we've seen it before, we'll have your answer here.

## Ask on Discuss

Chances are you're not the first person to ask your question. That's why our next recommendation is to search our [community forums](https://discuss.circleci.com/).

If you can't find your question, post it yourself and one of our support engineers -- or another CircleCI user -- will provide some guidance.

## Create a Support Request

If you need in-depth help, or have details you can't share on the forums, then you can ask directly for help from our support team. To create a support request, click the  'Support' link in the top right navigation bar, then click 'Get Support'. You can then browse the support center, and click 'Submit a Request' in the top left when ready.

In the form that appears, enter a title for your question, along with a message detailing your problem. You can also attach files if you have a helpful screenshot or cute cat picture.

When you're done, click 'Submit support request', and one of our support engineers will get back to you soon.

## Premium Support

If you know you're going to need a rapid response to problems, then check out our [Premium Support](https://circleci.com/support/premium-support/). You can skip the line for support requests, get critical issues escalated, and access early features of CircleCI.
