jekyll/_cci2/jobs-steps.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Jobs, Steps, and Workflows"
short-title: "Jobs, Steps, and Workflows"
description: "Description of Jobs and Steps"
categories: [migration]
order: 2
---

The document provides an overview of Jobs and Steps, new [`.circleci/config.yml`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/) keys that are nested inside Steps, and new keys for Workflows.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Jobs Overview

Jobs are a collection of Steps. All of the steps in the job are executed in a single unit which consumes a CircleCI container from your plan while it's running.

Jobs and Steps enable greater control and provide a framework for workflows and status on each phase of a run to report more frequent feedback. The following diagram illustrates how data flows between jobs. Workspaces persist data between jobs in a single Workflow. Caching persists data between the same job in different Workflow builds. Artifacts persist data after a Workflow has finished.

![header]( {{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/Diagram-v3--Default.png)

In 2.0 Jobs can be run using the `machine` executor which enables reuse of recently used `machine` executor runs, or the `docker` executor which can compose Docker containers to run your tests and any services they require, such as databases, or the `macos` executor.

When using the `docker` executor the container images listed under the `docker:` keys specify the containers to start.  Any public Docker images can be used with the `docker` executor.

See the [Specifying Container Images]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/executor-types/) document for more information about `docker` versus `machine` use cases and comparisons.

## Steps Overview

Steps are a collection of executable commands which are run during a job, the `checkout:` key is required to checkout your code and a key for `run:` enables addition of arbitrary, multi-line shell command scripting.  In addition to the `run:` key, keys for `save_cache:`, `restore_cache:`,  `deploy:`, `store_artifacts:`, `store_test_results:` and `add_ssh_keys` are nested under Steps.

## Sample Configuration with Parallel Jobs

Following is a sample 2.0 `.circleci/config.yml` file.

{% raw %}
```
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: <command>
  test:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: <command>
workflows:
  version: 2
  build_and_test:
    jobs:
      - build
      - test
```
{% endraw %}
This example shows a parallel job workflow where the `build` and `test` jobs run in parallel to save time. Refer to the [Workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows) document for complete details about orchestrating job runs with parallel, sequential, and manual approval workflows.

## See Also

- [Configuration Reference Jobs Key]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#jobs)
- [Configuration Reference Steps Key]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#steps)

Commit message:

add orbs concepts info to orbs, jobs, steps, workflows intro doc

jekyll/_cci2/jobs-steps.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Jobs, Steps, and Workflows"
short-title: "Orbs, Jobs, Steps, and Workflows"
description: "Description of Jobs and Steps"
categories: [migration]
order: 2
---

The document provides an overview of Jobs, Steps, Workflows and new [`.circleci/config.yml`]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/) keys for Orbs.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Orbs Overview

Orbs are packages of config (similar to Ruby Gems) that you either import by name or configure inline to simplify your config, share, and reuse config within and across projects. See [Using Orbs]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/using-orbs/) for details about how to use orbs in your config and an introduction to Orb design.

## Jobs Overview

Jobs are a collection of Steps. All of the steps in the job are executed in a single unit which consumes a CircleCI container from your plan while it's running.

Jobs and Steps enable greater control and provide a framework for workflows and status on each phase of a run to report more frequent feedback. The following diagram illustrates how data flows between jobs. Workspaces persist data between jobs in a single Workflow. Caching persists data between the same job in different Workflow builds. Artifacts persist data after a Workflow has finished.

![header]( {{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/Diagram-v3--Default.png)

In 2.0 Jobs can be run using the `machine` executor which enables reuse of recently used `machine` executor runs, or the `docker` executor which can compose Docker containers to run your tests and any services they require, such as databases, or the `macos` executor.

When using the `docker` executor the container images listed under the `docker:` keys specify the containers to start.  Any public Docker images can be used with the `docker` executor.

See the [Specifying Container Images]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/executor-types/) document for more information about `docker` versus `machine` use cases and comparisons.

## Steps Overview

Steps are a collection of executable commands which are run during a job, the `checkout:` key is required to checkout your code and a key for `run:` enables addition of arbitrary, multi-line shell command scripting.  In addition to the `run:` key, keys for `save_cache:`, `restore_cache:`,  `deploy:`, `store_artifacts:`, `store_test_results:` and `add_ssh_keys` are nested under Steps.

## Sample Configuration with Imported Orb

 ```yaml
 version: 2.1
 
 orbs:
   s3tools: circleci/s3@1 #imports the s3 orb in the circleci namespace
 
 workflows:
   build-test-deploy:
     jobs:
       - deploy2s3:
         steps:
           - s3tools/s3sync: #invokes the s3sync command declared in the s3 orb
               from: .
              to: "s3://mybucket_uri"
              overwrite: true
```


## Sample Configuration with Parallel Jobs

Following is a sample 2.0 `.circleci/config.yml` file.

{% raw %}
```
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: <command>
  test:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/<language>:<version TAG>
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: <command>
workflows:
  version: 2
  build_and_test:
    jobs:
      - build
      - test
```
{% endraw %}
This example shows a parallel job workflow where the `build` and `test` jobs run in parallel to save time. Refer to the [Workflows]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/workflows) document for complete details about orchestrating job runs with parallel, sequential, and manual approval workflows.


## See Also

- [Configuration Reference Jobs Key]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#jobs)
- [Configuration Reference Steps Key]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/configuration-reference/#steps)
