jekyll/_cci2/migrating-from-travis.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Migrating From Travis CI"
categories: [migration]
description: "Migrating from Travis CI"
---

This document provides an overview of how to migrate from Travis CI to CircleCI.

The example build configurations referenced throughout this article are based
off this [example JavaScript
repository](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/circleci-demo-javascript-express/blob/master/.circleci/config.yml).
For context (and limiting the scope of this article), consider the
example repository's owner to want to achieve the following with their
Continuous Integration tooling:

- On pushing code: run a build and run all tests.
- Expect that build time will be reduced by caching any dependencies after the
  initial build.
- Enable the safe use of environment variables.
- On each build, upload a `test-results.xml` file to be made accessible online.

## Prerequisites

This document assumes that you have an account with CircleCI that is linked
to a repository. If you don't, consider going over our [getting started guide]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/getting-started/).

## Configuration Files

Both Travis and CircleCI make use of a _configuration file_ to determine what
each Continuous Integration provider does respectively. With Travis, your
configuration will live in a `.travis.yml` file in the root of your repository.
With CircleCI, your configuration will live in `.circleci/config.yml` at the
root of your repository.

## Building on Pushing Code

The example repository linked above is a basic application for creating, reading, updating, and deleting articles. The
app is built with the `MERN` stack and there are tests present on the client as
well as the REST API that should run whenever code is pushed.

To get tests running for this example repository, the beginnings of a simple
Travis Configuration might look like the following example:

```yaml
language: node_js
services: mongodb
before_install: 
  - npm i -g npm@5
node_js:
  - "5"
cache: npm
```

For basic builds, a TravisCI configuration will leverage a language's best known
dependency and build tools and will abstract them away as default commands
(which can be overridden) in [a job lifecycle](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/job-lifecycle/#the-job-lifecycle). In this
case, when the build runs, TravisCI will automatically run `npm install` for the
`install` step, and run `npm start` for the `script` step.

If a user needs more control with their CI environment, TravisCI uses _hooks_
to run commands before/after the `install` and `script` steps. In the example
above, a "before hook" is used to specify that the npm version be pinned to `5`. Hooks can execute shell
scripts as well, which users will sometimes store in a `.travis` folder at the
root of their repository.

The following CircleCI configuration to achieve the same results is excerpted from the example repository:

{% raw %}
```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    working_directory: ~/mern-starter
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:4.8.2
      - image: mongo:3.4.4
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: update-npm
          command: 'sudo npm install -g npm@5'
      - restore_cache:
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package.json" }}
      - run:
          name: install-npm-wee
          command: npm install
      - save_cache:
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package.json" }}
          paths:
            - ./node_modules
      - run:
          name: test
          command: npm test
```
{% endraw %}

In the config above, no _language_ is specifically required, and the
user is able to specify any number of `steps` that can be run, with no
restrictions on step order. By leveraging Docker, specific Node.js and
MongoDB versions are made available in each `command` that gets run.

### Caching Dependencies

With CircleCI you have control over when and how your config caches and restore dependencies. In the above example, the CircleCI `.circleci/config.yml`
checks for a dependency cache based specifically on a checksum of the
`package.json` file. You can set your cache based on any key (not just `package.json`) as well as set a
group of cache paths to defer to in the declared order. Refer to the [caching
dependencies document]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/caching/) to learn about customizing how your build
creates and restores caches.

In a Travis Configuration, [dependency
caching](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/caching/) occurs in your build after the
`script` phase and is tied to the language you are using. In our
case, by using the `cache: npm` key in `.travis.yml`, dependencies will default
to caching `node_modules`.

### On Using Containers

With CircleCI, the context in which your checked out code executes (builds,
tests, etc) is known as an [Executor]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/executor-intro/). 

If you're coming from TravisCI, using Docker will be the closest means to running
a build based on a language. While you can use any custom Docker Images, CircleCI maintains several [Docker Images]({{ site.baseurl
}}/2.0/circleci-images/) tailored for common `.config` scenarios.

## Environment Variables

Both Travis and CircleCI enable the use of environment variables in your builds.

In your CircleCI `.circleci/config.yml` you can put environment variables directly in your
build config in a step, a job, or a container. These variables are public and unencrypted. With TravisCI, it is possible to include [encrypted environment](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables#defining-encrypted-variables-in-travisyml) variables directly in your config (if you install the `travis` gem).

### Setting Environment Variables in the Web Application

If you've used TravisCI's [repository settings](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables#defining-variables-in-repository-settings),
you'll be comfortable setting your environment variables in CircleCI's project
settings page. Read the docs for setting environment variable in a [single
project]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project).

With CircleCI, it is also possible to securely set environment variables across _all_ projects using [contexts]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/contexts/).

**Note:** CircleCI has several [built-in environment variables](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/#built-in-environment-variables).

## Artifacts Uploading

With TravisCI you can upload build artifacts either manually using AWS S3 or
as an attachment to a GitHub Release.

On CircleCI, artifact uploading occurs in a step in your config:

```yaml
      - run:
          name: test
          command: npm test
      - run:
          name: code-coverage
          command: './node_modules/.bin/nyc report --reporter=text-lcov'
      - store_artifacts: # < stores test-results.xml, available in the web app or through the api.
          path: test-results.xml
          prefix: tests
      - store_artifacts:
          path: coverage
          prefix: coverage
      - store_test_results:
          path: test-results.xml
```

After an artifact is successfully uploaded, you can view it in the Artifacts tab
of the Job page in your browser, or access them through the CircleCI API. Read the
documentation on [artifact uploading]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/artifacts/) to learn more.

## Advanced Tooling

More advanced configuration on Travis might make use of a *Build Matrix*
(a configuration that specifies running multiple parallel jobs) or *Build Stages*
(grouping jobs into stages that can run in parallel as well as having sequential
jobs rely on the success of previous jobs.)

With CircleCI you can use [workflows]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/workflows/) in your `.circleci/config.yml` to define a collection of jobs and their
run order, whether leveraging parallelism, fan-in or fan-out builds, or
sequentially-dependant builds. Workflows allow complex and fine-grained control
over your build configuration.

Commit message:

Updating Travis Migration Docs
I moved the "On Using Containers" section to be higher up, so it's one of the first things customers moving over from Travis and checking our docs see- since all Travis builds are based on specifying a language and CircleCI builds are done in docker containers, and that's information customers need before they can really take any other steps forward, I think having it earlier up in the table of contents makes sense. I've also included a table translating terms from Travis's yml configuration into the equivalent CircleCI terms with links to the relevant sections for quick reference.

jekyll/_cci2/migrating-from-travis.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Migrating From Travis CI"
categories: [migration]
description: "Migrating from Travis CI"
---

This document provides an overview of how to migrate from Travis CI to CircleCI.

The example build configurations referenced throughout this article are based
off this [example JavaScript
repository](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/circleci-demo-javascript-express/blob/master/.circleci/config.yml).
For context (and limiting the scope of this article), consider the
example repository's owner to want to achieve the following with their
Continuous Integration tooling:

- On pushing code: run a build and run all tests.
- Expect that build time will be reduced by caching any dependencies after the
  initial build.
- Enable the safe use of environment variables.
- On each build, upload a `test-results.xml` file to be made accessible online.

## Prerequisites

This document assumes that you have an account with CircleCI that is linked
to a repository. If you don't, consider going over our [getting started guide]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/getting-started/).

## Configuration Files

Both Travis and CircleCI make use of a _configuration file_ to determine what
each Continuous Integration provider does respectively. With Travis, your
configuration will live in a `.travis.yml` file in the root of your repository.
With CircleCI, your configuration will live in `.circleci/config.yml` at the
root of your repository.

| Travis CI         | Circle CI                   | Description                                                                                       |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| language:         | [docker.image](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#docker)                | Use the Docker executor to specify an appropriate Docker image for the target language            |
| dist:             | [docker, machine, macos](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/executor-types/)      | If your build must run in a fully virtualized environment, or on a macOS builder                  |
| cache components: | [restore_cache:,](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#restore_cache) [save_cache:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#restore_cache) | Use the restore and save cache features to control caching in the builds                          |
| before_cache      | [restore_cache:,](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#restore_cache) [save_cache:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#restore_cache) | Use the restore and save cache features to control caching in the builds                          |
| before_install:   | [run:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run)                        | Use the run: step to specify pre install commands                                                 |
| install:          | [run:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run)                        | Use the run: step to specify install commands                                                     |
| before_script     | [run:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run)                        | Use the run: step to specify pre-execution commands                                               |
| script:           | [run:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run)                        | Use the run: step to specify execution commands                                                   |
| after_script:     | [run:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run)                        | Use the run: step to specify post-execution commands                                              |
| deploy:           | [deploy:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#deploy)                     | Use the deploy: step to deploy build artifacts                                                    |
| env:              | [environment:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#environment)                | Use the environment: element to specify environment variables                                     |
| matrix:           | [workflows:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#workflows)                  | Workflows are used on CircleCI to orchestrate multiple jobs                                       |
| stage:            | [requires:](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#requires)                   | Use the requires: element to explicitly require any job dependencies and control parallel builds. |

### On Using Containers

With CircleCI, the context in which your checked out code executes (builds,
tests, etc) is known as an [Executor]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/executor-intro/). 

If you're coming from Travis CI, using Docker will be the closest means to running
a build based on a language. While you can use any custom Docker Images, CircleCI maintains several [Docker Images]({{ site.baseurl
}}/2.0/circleci-images/) tailored for common `.config` scenarios.

## Building on Pushing Code

The example repository linked above is a basic application for creating, reading, updating, and deleting articles. The
app is built with the `MERN` stack and there are tests present on the client as
well as the REST API that should run whenever code is pushed.

To get tests running for this example repository, the beginnings of a simple
Travis Configuration might look like the following example:

```yaml
language: node_js
services: mongodb
before_install: 
  - npm i -g npm@5
node_js:
  - "5"
cache: npm
```

For basic builds, a TravisCI configuration will leverage a language's best known
dependency and build tools and will abstract them away as default commands
(which can be overridden) in [a job lifecycle](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/job-lifecycle/#the-job-lifecycle). In this
case, when the build runs, TravisCI will automatically run `npm install` for the
`install` step, and run `npm start` for the `script` step.

If a user needs more control with their CI environment, TravisCI uses _hooks_
to run commands before/after the `install` and `script` steps. In the example
above, a "before hook" is used to specify that the npm version be pinned to `5`. Hooks can execute shell
scripts as well, which users will sometimes store in a `.travis` folder at the
root of their repository.

The following CircleCI configuration to achieve the same results is excerpted from the example repository:

{% raw %}
```yaml
version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    working_directory: ~/mern-starter
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:4.8.2
      - image: mongo:3.4.4
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: update-npm
          command: 'sudo npm install -g npm@5'
      - restore_cache:
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package.json" }}
      - run:
          name: install-npm-wee
          command: npm install
      - save_cache:
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package.json" }}
          paths:
            - ./node_modules
      - run:
          name: test
          command: npm test
```
{% endraw %}

In the config above, no _language_ is specifically required, and the
user is able to specify any number of `steps` that can be run, with no
restrictions on step order. By leveraging Docker, specific Node.js and
MongoDB versions are made available in each `command` that gets run.

### Caching Dependencies

With CircleCI you have control over when and how your config caches and restore dependencies. In the above example, the CircleCI `.circleci/config.yml`
checks for a dependency cache based specifically on a checksum of the
`package.json` file. You can set your cache based on any key (not just `package.json`) as well as set a
group of cache paths to defer to in the declared order. Refer to the [caching
dependencies document]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/caching/) to learn about customizing how your build
creates and restores caches.

In a Travis Configuration, [dependency
caching](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/caching/) occurs in your build after the
`script` phase and is tied to the language you are using. In our
case, by using the `cache: npm` key in `.travis.yml`, dependencies will default
to caching `node_modules`.

## Environment Variables

Both Travis and CircleCI enable the use of environment variables in your builds.

In your CircleCI `.circleci/config.yml` you can put environment variables directly in your
build config in a step, a job, or a container. These variables are public and unencrypted. With TravisCI, it is possible to include [encrypted environment](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables#defining-encrypted-variables-in-travisyml) variables directly in your config (if you install the `travis` gem).

### Setting Environment Variables in the Web Application

If you've used TravisCI's [repository settings](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables#defining-variables-in-repository-settings),
you'll be comfortable setting your environment variables in CircleCI's project
settings page. Read the docs for setting environment variable in a [single
project]({{ site.baseurl }}/2.0/env-vars/#setting-an-environment-variable-in-a-project).

With CircleCI, it is also possible to securely set environment variables across _all_ projects using [contexts]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/contexts/).

**Note:** CircleCI has several [built-in environment variables](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/env-vars/#built-in-environment-variables).

## Artifacts Uploading

With TravisCI you can upload build artifacts either manually using AWS S3 or
as an attachment to a GitHub Release.

On CircleCI, artifact uploading occurs in a step in your config:

```yaml
      - run:
          name: test
          command: npm test
      - run:
          name: code-coverage
          command: './node_modules/.bin/nyc report --reporter=text-lcov'
      - store_artifacts: # < stores test-results.xml, available in the web app or through the api.
          path: test-results.xml
          prefix: tests
      - store_artifacts:
          path: coverage
          prefix: coverage
      - store_test_results:
          path: test-results.xml
```

After an artifact is successfully uploaded, you can view it in the Artifacts tab
of the Job page in your browser, or access them through the CircleCI API. Read the
documentation on [artifact uploading]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/artifacts/) to learn more.

## Advanced Tooling

More advanced configuration on Travis might make use of a *Build Matrix*
(a configuration that specifies running multiple parallel jobs) or *Build Stages*
(grouping jobs into stages that can run in parallel as well as having sequential
jobs rely on the success of previous jobs.)

With CircleCI you can use [workflows]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/workflows/) in your `.circleci/config.yml` to define a collection of jobs and their
run order, whether leveraging parallelism, fan-in or fan-out builds, or
sequentially-dependant builds. Workflows allow complex and fine-grained control
over your build configuration.
