jekyll/_cci2/nomad-metrics.adoc, before:

= Configuring Nomad Client Metrics
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:sectanchors:

Nomad Metrics is a helper service used to collect metrics data from the <<nomad#basic-terminology-and-architecture,Nomad server and clients>> running on the Services and Nomad instances respectively.  Metrics are collected and sent using the https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd/[DogStatsD] protocol and sent to the Services machine.

== Nomad Metrics Server

The Nomad Metrics container is run on the services host using the server flag and is installed as part of the CircleCI Server installation process, requiring no additional configuration.

== Nomad Metrics Client

The Nomad Metrics client is installed and run on all Nomad client instances. You will need to update your AWS Launch Configuration in order to install and configure it.  Additionally, you will need to modify the AWS security group to ensure that UDP port 8125 is open on the Services machine. Steps for both configuration changes are explained below.

NOTE: Before proceeding, you should be logged into the EC2 Service section of the AWS Console.  Make sure that you logged into the region you use to run CircleCI Server.

=== Updating the Services machine Security Group

. Select the `Instances` link located under the Instances group in the left sidebar.
. Select the Services Box Instance.  The name tag typically resembles `circleci_services`.
. In the description box at the bottom, select the users security group link located next to the `Security Groups` section.  It typically resembles `*_users_sg`.
. This will take you straight to the Security Group page highlighting the users security group.  In the description box at the bottom, select the `Inbound` tab followed by the `Edit` button.
. Select the `Add a Rule` button.  From the drop-down, select `Custom UDP Rule`.  In the Port Range field enter `8125`.
. The source field gives you a few options.  However, this ultimately depends on how you have configured the VPC and subnet.  Below are some more common scenarios.
.. (Suggested) Allow traffic from the nomad client subnet.  You can usually match the entries used for ports 4647 or 3001.  For example, `10.0.0.0/24`.
.. Allow all traffic to UDP port 8125 using `0.0.0.0/0`.
. Press the `Save Button`

=== Updating the AWS Launch Configuration

==== Prerequisites

===== AWS EC2 Launch Configuration ID

. Select the `Auto Scaling Groups` (ASG) link in the the sidebar on the left.
. Locate the ASG with a name tag similar to`*_nomad_clients_asg`
. The Launch Configuration name is next to the ASG name IE `terraform-20180814231555427200000001`

===== AWS EC2 Services Box Private IP Address

. Select the `Instances` link located under the Instances group in the left sidebar
. Select the Services Box Instance.  The name tag typically resembles `circleci_services`
. In the description box at the bottom of the page, make note of the private IP address.

==== Updating the Launch Configuration

. Select the `Launch Configurations` link located under `Auto Scaling` in the sidebar to the left.  Select the Launch Configuration you retrieved in the previous steps.
. In the description pane at the bottom, select the `Copy launch configuration` button.
. Once the configuration page opens, select `3. Configure details` link located at the top of the page.
. Update the `Name` field to something meaningful IE `nomad-builder-with-metrics-lc-DATE`.
. Select the `Advanced Details` drop down.
. Copy and paste the launch configuration script from below in the text field next to `User data`.
. **IMPORTANT:** Enter the private IP address of the services box at Line 10. For example, `export SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP="192.168.1.2"`.
. Select the `Skip to review` button and then the `Create launch configuration` button.

```bash
#! /bin/sh

set -exu

export http_proxy=""
export https_proxy=""
export no_proxy=""
export CONTAINER_NAME="nomad_metrics"
export CONTAINER_IMAGE="circleci/nomad-metrics:0.1.90-1448fa7"
export SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP=""
export NOMAD_METRICS_PORT="8125"

echo "-------------------------------------------"
echo "     Performing System Updates"
echo "-------------------------------------------"
apt-get update && apt-get -y upgrade

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "        Installing Docker"
echo "--------------------------------------"
apt-get install -y linux-image-extra-$(uname -r) linux-image-extra-virtual
apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | apt-key add -
add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
apt-get update
apt-get -y install docker-ce=17.03.2~ce-0~ubuntu-trusty cgmanager

sudo echo 'export http_proxy=""' >> /etc/default/docker
sudo echo 'export https_proxy=""' >> /etc/default/docker
sudo echo 'export no_proxy=""' >> /etc/default/docker
sudo service docker restart
sleep 5

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "         Installing nomad"
echo "--------------------------------------"
apt-get install -y zip
curl -o nomad.zip https://releases.hashicorp.com/nomad/0.5.6/nomad_0.5.6_linux_amd64.zip
unzip nomad.zip
mv nomad /usr/bin

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Creating config.hcl"
echo "--------------------------------------"
export PRIVATE_IP="$(/sbin/ifconfig eth0 | grep 'inet addr:' | cut -d: -f2 | awk '{ print $1}')"
mkdir -p /etc/nomad
cat <<EOT > /etc/nomad/config.hcl
log_level = "DEBUG"

data_dir = "/opt/nomad"
datacenter = "us-east-1"

advertise {
    http = "$PRIVATE_IP"
    rpc = "$PRIVATE_IP"
    serf = "$PRIVATE_IP"
}

client {
    enabled = true

    # Expecting to have DNS record for nomad server(s)
    servers = ["$SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP:4647"]
    node_class = "linux-64bit"
    options = {"driver.raw_exec.enable" = "1"}
}

telemetry {
    publish_node_metrics = true
    statsd_address = "$SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP:8125"
}
EOT

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Creating nomad.conf"
echo "--------------------------------------"
cat <<EOT > /etc/init/nomad.conf
start on filesystem or runlevel [2345]
stop on shutdown

script
    exec nomad agent -config /etc/nomad/config.hcl
end script
EOT

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "   Creating ci-privileged network"
echo "--------------------------------------"
docker network create --driver=bridge --opt com.docker.network.bridge.name=ci-privileged ci-privileged

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Starting Nomad service"
echo "--------------------------------------"
service nomad restart

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Setting up Nomad metrics"
echo "--------------------------------------"
docker pull $CONTAINER_IMAGE
docker rm -f $CONTAINER_NAME || true

docker run -d --name $CONTAINER_NAME \
    --rm \
    --net=host \
    --userns=host \
    $CONTAINER_IMAGE \
    start --nomad-uri=http://localhost:4646 --statsd-host=$SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP --statsd-port=$NOMAD_METRICS_PORT --client

```

==== Updating the Auto Scaling Group

. Select the `Auto Scaling Groups` (ASG) link in the the sidebar on the left.
. Select the ASG with a name tag similar to `*_nomad_clients_asg`.
. In the description box at the bottom, select the `Edit` button.
. Select the newly created Launch Configuration from the drop-down.
. Press the `Save` button.
. At this point, the older Nomad client instances will begin shutting down.  They will be replaced with newer Nomad clients running Nomad Metrics.

== StatsD Metrics

=== --server

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=3*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="3,2,2"]
|===
| Name
| Type
| Description

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.poll_failure`
| Gauge
| 1 if the last poll of the Nomad agent failed; 0 otherwise.  This gauge is set independent of `circle.nomad.client_agent.poll_failure` when nomad-metrics is operating in `--client` and `--server` modes simultaneously.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.pending`
| Gauge
| Total number of pending jobs across the cluster.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.running`
| Gauge
| Total number of running jobs across the cluster.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.complete`
| Gauge
| Total number of complete jobs across the cluster.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.dead`
| Gauge
| Total number of dead jobs across the cluster.
|===

NOTE: The number of jobs in a terminal state (`complete` and `dead`) will typically increase until Nomad garbage-collects the jobs from its state.

=== --client

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=3*, options="header", stripes=even]
|===
| Name
| Type
| Description

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.poll_failure`
| Gauge
| 1 if the last poll of the Nomad agent failed; 0 otherwise.

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.cpu`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.cpu`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.cpu`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.memory`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.memory`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.memory`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.disk`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.disk`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.disk`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.iops`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.iops`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.iops`
| Gauge
| (See below)
|===

[NOTE]
====

* CPU resources are reported in units of MHz.  Memory resources are reported in units of MB.  Disk (capacity) resources are reported in units of MB.
* Resource metrics are scoped to the Nomad node that nomad-metrics has been configured to poll.  Figures from a single nomad-metrics job operating in `--client` mode are _not_ representative of the entire cluster (Though these timeseries may be aggregated by an external mechanism to arrive at a cluster-wide view.)
* All metrics in the `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources` namespace will be accompanied with the following tags when writing to DogStatsD:
** `drain`: `true` if the Nomad node has been marked as drained; `false`
    otherwise.
** `status`: One of `initializing`, `ready`, or `down`.

====

Commit message:

add nomad metrics timing info

jekyll/_cci2/nomad-metrics.adoc, after:

= Configuring Nomad Client Metrics
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:sectanchors:

Nomad Metrics is a helper service used to collect metrics data from the <<nomad#basic-terminology-and-architecture,Nomad server and clients>> running on the Services and Nomad instances respectively.  Metrics are collected and sent using the https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd/[DogStatsD] protocol and sent to the Services machine.

== Nomad Metrics Server

The Nomad Metrics container is run on the services host using the server flag and is installed as part of the CircleCI Server installation process, requiring no additional configuration.

== Nomad Metrics Client

The Nomad Metrics client is installed and run on all Nomad client instances. You will need to update your AWS Launch Configuration in order to install and configure it.  Additionally, you will need to modify the AWS security group to ensure that UDP port 8125 is open on the Services machine. Steps for both configuration changes are explained below.

NOTE: Before proceeding, you should be logged into the EC2 Service section of the AWS Console.  Make sure that you logged into the region you use to run CircleCI Server.

=== Updating the Services machine Security Group

. Select the `Instances` link located under the Instances group in the left sidebar.
. Select the Services Box Instance.  The name tag typically resembles `circleci_services`.
. In the description box at the bottom, select the users security group link located next to the `Security Groups` section.  It typically resembles `*_users_sg`.
. This will take you straight to the Security Group page highlighting the users security group.  In the description box at the bottom, select the `Inbound` tab followed by the `Edit` button.
. Select the `Add a Rule` button.  From the drop-down, select `Custom UDP Rule`.  In the Port Range field enter `8125`.
. The source field gives you a few options.  However, this ultimately depends on how you have configured the VPC and subnet.  Below are some more common scenarios.
.. (Suggested) Allow traffic from the nomad client subnet.  You can usually match the entries used for ports 4647 or 3001.  For example, `10.0.0.0/24`.
.. Allow all traffic to UDP port 8125 using `0.0.0.0/0`.
. Press the `Save Button`

=== Updating the AWS Launch Configuration

==== Prerequisites

===== AWS EC2 Launch Configuration ID

. Select the `Auto Scaling Groups` (ASG) link in the the sidebar on the left.
. Locate the ASG with a name tag similar to`*_nomad_clients_asg`
. The Launch Configuration name is next to the ASG name IE `terraform-20180814231555427200000001`

===== AWS EC2 Services Box Private IP Address

. Select the `Instances` link located under the Instances group in the left sidebar
. Select the Services Box Instance.  The name tag typically resembles `circleci_services`
. In the description box at the bottom of the page, make note of the private IP address.

==== Updating the Launch Configuration

. Select the `Launch Configurations` link located under `Auto Scaling` in the sidebar to the left.  Select the Launch Configuration you retrieved in the previous steps.
. In the description pane at the bottom, select the `Copy launch configuration` button.
. Once the configuration page opens, select `3. Configure details` link located at the top of the page.
. Update the `Name` field to something meaningful IE `nomad-builder-with-metrics-lc-DATE`.
. Select the `Advanced Details` drop down.
. Copy and paste the launch configuration script from below in the text field next to `User data`.
. **IMPORTANT:** Enter the private IP address of the services box at Line 10. For example, `export SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP="192.168.1.2"`.
. Select the `Skip to review` button and then the `Create launch configuration` button.

```bash
#! /bin/sh

set -exu

export http_proxy=""
export https_proxy=""
export no_proxy=""
export CONTAINER_NAME="nomad_metrics"
export CONTAINER_IMAGE="circleci/nomad-metrics:0.1.90-1448fa7"
export SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP=""
export NOMAD_METRICS_PORT="8125"

echo "-------------------------------------------"
echo "     Performing System Updates"
echo "-------------------------------------------"
apt-get update && apt-get -y upgrade

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "        Installing Docker"
echo "--------------------------------------"
apt-get install -y linux-image-extra-$(uname -r) linux-image-extra-virtual
apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | apt-key add -
add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
apt-get update
apt-get -y install docker-ce=17.03.2~ce-0~ubuntu-trusty cgmanager

sudo echo 'export http_proxy=""' >> /etc/default/docker
sudo echo 'export https_proxy=""' >> /etc/default/docker
sudo echo 'export no_proxy=""' >> /etc/default/docker
sudo service docker restart
sleep 5

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "         Installing nomad"
echo "--------------------------------------"
apt-get install -y zip
curl -o nomad.zip https://releases.hashicorp.com/nomad/0.5.6/nomad_0.5.6_linux_amd64.zip
unzip nomad.zip
mv nomad /usr/bin

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Creating config.hcl"
echo "--------------------------------------"
export PRIVATE_IP="$(/sbin/ifconfig eth0 | grep 'inet addr:' | cut -d: -f2 | awk '{ print $1}')"
mkdir -p /etc/nomad
cat <<EOT > /etc/nomad/config.hcl
log_level = "DEBUG"

data_dir = "/opt/nomad"
datacenter = "us-east-1"

advertise {
    http = "$PRIVATE_IP"
    rpc = "$PRIVATE_IP"
    serf = "$PRIVATE_IP"
}

client {
    enabled = true

    # Expecting to have DNS record for nomad server(s)
    servers = ["$SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP:4647"]
    node_class = "linux-64bit"
    options = {"driver.raw_exec.enable" = "1"}
}

telemetry {
    publish_node_metrics = true
    statsd_address = "$SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP:8125"
}
EOT

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Creating nomad.conf"
echo "--------------------------------------"
cat <<EOT > /etc/init/nomad.conf
start on filesystem or runlevel [2345]
stop on shutdown

script
    exec nomad agent -config /etc/nomad/config.hcl
end script
EOT

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "   Creating ci-privileged network"
echo "--------------------------------------"
docker network create --driver=bridge --opt com.docker.network.bridge.name=ci-privileged ci-privileged

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Starting Nomad service"
echo "--------------------------------------"
service nomad restart

echo "--------------------------------------"
echo "      Setting up Nomad metrics"
echo "--------------------------------------"
docker pull $CONTAINER_IMAGE
docker rm -f $CONTAINER_NAME || true

docker run -d --name $CONTAINER_NAME \
    --rm \
    --net=host \
    --userns=host \
    $CONTAINER_IMAGE \
    start --nomad-uri=http://localhost:4646 --statsd-host=$SERVICES_PRIVATE_IP --statsd-port=$NOMAD_METRICS_PORT --client

```

==== Updating the Auto Scaling Group

. Select the `Auto Scaling Groups` (ASG) link in the the sidebar on the left.
. Select the ASG with a name tag similar to `*_nomad_clients_asg`.
. In the description box at the bottom, select the `Edit` button.
. Select the newly created Launch Configuration from the drop-down.
. Press the `Save` button.
. At this point, the older Nomad client instances will begin shutting down.  They will be replaced with newer Nomad clients running Nomad Metrics.

== StatsD Metrics

NOTE: Metrics sent via StatsD will be updated every 10s.

=== --server

NOTE: The number of jobs in a terminal state (`complete` and `dead`) will typically increase until Nomad garbage-collects the jobs from its state.

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=3*, options="header", stripes=even]
[cols="3,2,2"]
|===
| Name
| Type
| Description

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.poll_failure`
| Gauge
| 1 if the last poll of the Nomad agent failed; 0 otherwise.  This gauge is set independent of `circle.nomad.client_agent.poll_failure` when nomad-metrics is operating in `--client` and `--server` modes simultaneously.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.pending`
| Gauge
| Total number of pending jobs across the cluster.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.running`
| Gauge
| Total number of running jobs across the cluster.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.complete`
| Gauge
| Total number of complete jobs across the cluster.

| `circle.nomad.server_agent.jobs.dead`
| Gauge
| Total number of dead jobs across the cluster.
|===

=== --client

[.table.table-striped]
[cols=3*, options="header", stripes=even]
|===
| Name
| Type
| Description

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.poll_failure`
| Gauge
| 1 if the last poll of the Nomad agent failed; 0 otherwise.

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.cpu`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.cpu`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.cpu`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.memory`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.memory`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.memory`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.disk`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.disk`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.disk`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.total.iops`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.used.iops`
| Gauge
| (See below)

| `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources.available.iops`
| Gauge
| (See below)
|===

[NOTE]
====

* CPU resources are reported in units of MHz.  Memory resources are reported in units of MB.  Disk (capacity) resources are reported in units of MB.
* Resource metrics are scoped to the Nomad node that nomad-metrics has been configured to poll.  Figures from a single nomad-metrics job operating in `--client` mode are _not_ representative of the entire cluster (Though these timeseries may be aggregated by an external mechanism to arrive at a cluster-wide view.)
* All metrics in the `circle.nomad.client_agent.resources` namespace will be accompanied with the following tags when writing to DogStatsD:
** `drain`: `true` if the Nomad node has been marked as drained; `false`
    otherwise.
** `status`: One of `initializing`, `ready`, or `down`.

====
