jekyll/_cci2/orbs-faq.md, before:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Orbs FAQ"
short-title: "Orbs FAQ"
description: "FAQs for Orbs"
categories: [configuring-jobs]
order: 20
---

This document describes various questions and technical issues that you may find helpful when working with Orbs.

* TOC
{:toc}

### Downloading, Integrating, and Testing Orbs
{:.no_toc}

* Question: How do I download, integrate and test orbs?

* Answer: You can invoke orbs using the `orbs` stanza in version 2.1 or higher of a CircleCI configuration. For example, if you want to publish an orb called  `hello-build` in the namespace `circleci` and have a published version `0.0.1`, invoke an orb like the example shown below:

```
orbs:
     hello: circleci/hello-build@0.0.5
```

You may then use the elements of that orb in your configuration by referencing these elements under the key `hello`. For example, if an orb has a job called `hello-build`, you can invoke that job in a workflow like the example shown below.

```
workflows:
  info:
    jobs:
      - hello/hello-build
```

CircleCI publishes a web-based registry viewer so orbs documentation can be auto-generated. You can always pull the source of Orbs directly as well. For example, you can run `circleci orb source circleci/hello-build@0.01`

### Build Error When Testing Locally

* Question: Why do I get the following error when testing locally:

```
circleci build -c .circleci/jobs.yml --job test
```

```
Error:
You attempted to run a local build with version 2.1 of configuration.
```

* Answer: To resolve this error, run `circleci config process` on your configuration and then save that configuration to disk. You then should run `circleci local execute` against the processed configuration.

### Rerun Error

* Question: Why do I get the following error when re-running the same workflow:

```
only certified orbs are permitted in this project.
```

* Answer: Try making a whitespace change or similar. Your config won't recompile until you've made a change. Config processing happens before the compiled code is passed into the workflows conductor. Because of that, the workflows conductor (where you trigger the rebuild) knows nothing of the original 2.1 config.


<!---
### Environment Variables Not Being Passed at Runtime

Occasionally, when you try to convert a configuration to a 2.0 compatible format, environment variables may not be passed at runtime. For example, if you create a simple configuration in your GitHub repository (for example `https://github.com/yourusername/circle-auto/blob/master/.circleci/echo.yml`) and then call the config using:

```export AUTO_FILE=/Users/yourusername/Desktop/apkpure_app_887.apk
export AUTO_DIR=.
circleci build -c .circleci/echo.yml --job test
```

The config shows:

```#!bin/bash -eo pipefail
echo file $(AUTO_FILE) dir $(AUTO_DIR)
file directlySuccess!
```
Upon execution, you may see the following response:

.circleci/echo.yml

```version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
    - image: circleci/openjdk:8-jdk
    steps:
    - checkout
  test:
    docker:
    - image: circleci/openjdk:8-jdk
    environment:
    - TERM: dumb
    steps:
    - checkout
    - run:
        command: "echo file ${AUTO_FILE} dir ${AUTO_DIR}"
workflows:
  version: 2
  workflow:
    jobs:
    - build
    - test```

yourusername/circle-autoAdded by GitHub
```
--->


### Logging Outputs

* Question: Is there a standard way to to log output? For example, Jenkins plugins provide console links to show the log output and provides hooks to log those messages. It is possible to log to stdout, but is there a better way to log those log messages.

* Answer: In CircleCI, all steps that run are logged, so any output from those steps will appear in the console. You can use SSH to `echo` things directly. CircleCI does not have a separate logging facility outside the console output.

### Failing Builds

Question: How can I intentionally fail a job that invokes an orb from within an orb?

Answer: You can always return a non-zero status code from the shell to fail the job. You can also use `run: circleci-agent step halt` as a step to exit the job without failing.


## See Also
- Refer to [Orb Introduction]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-intro/), for a high-level overview.
- Refer to [Using Orbs]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/using-orbs/), for more about how to use existing orbs.
- Refer to [Creating Orbs]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/creating-orbs/), where you will find step-by-step instructions on how to create your own orb.
- Refer to [Reusing Config]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config/) for more detailed examples of reusable orbs, commands, parameters, and executors.

Commit message:

Updated orbs-faq.md content
Added a note to content that private installations of CircleCI are not currently supported for orbs. Fixes #2961

jekyll/_cci2/orbs-faq.md, after:

---
layout: classic-docs
title: "Orbs FAQ"
short-title: "Orbs FAQ"
description: "FAQs for Orbs"
categories: [configuring-jobs]
order: 20
---

This document describes various questions and technical issues that you may find helpful when working with Orbs.

* TOC
{:toc}

### Downloading, Integrating, and Testing Orbs
{:.no_toc}

* Question: How do I download, integrate and test orbs?

* Answer: You can invoke orbs using the `orbs` stanza in version 2.1 or higher of a CircleCI configuration. For example, if you want to publish an orb called  `hello-build` in the namespace `circleci` and have a published version `0.0.1`, invoke an orb like the example shown below:

```
orbs:
     hello: circleci/hello-build@0.0.5
```

You may then use the elements of that orb in your configuration by referencing these elements under the key `hello`. For example, if an orb has a job called `hello-build`, you can invoke that job in a workflow like the example shown below.

```
workflows:
  info:
    jobs:
      - hello/hello-build
```

CircleCI publishes a web-based registry viewer so orbs documentation can be auto-generated. You can always pull the source of Orbs directly as well. For example, you can run `circleci orb source circleci/hello-build@0.01`

### Build Error When Testing Locally

* Question: Why do I get the following error when testing locally:

```
circleci build -c .circleci/jobs.yml --job test
```

```
Error:
You attempted to run a local build with version 2.1 of configuration.
```

* Answer: To resolve this error, run `circleci config process` on your configuration and then save that configuration to disk. You then should run `circleci local execute` against the processed configuration.

### Rerun Error

* Question: Why do I get the following error when re-running the same workflow:

```
only certified orbs are permitted in this project.
```

* Answer: Try making a whitespace change or similar. Your config won't recompile until you've made a change. Config processing happens before the compiled code is passed into the workflows conductor. Because of that, the workflows conductor (where you trigger the rebuild) knows nothing of the original 2.1 config.


<!---
### Environment Variables Not Being Passed at Runtime

Occasionally, when you try to convert a configuration to a 2.0 compatible format, environment variables may not be passed at runtime. For example, if you create a simple configuration in your GitHub repository (for example `https://github.com/yourusername/circle-auto/blob/master/.circleci/echo.yml`) and then call the config using:

```export AUTO_FILE=/Users/yourusername/Desktop/apkpure_app_887.apk
export AUTO_DIR=.
circleci build -c .circleci/echo.yml --job test
```

The config shows:

```#!bin/bash -eo pipefail
echo file $(AUTO_FILE) dir $(AUTO_DIR)
file directlySuccess!
```
Upon execution, you may see the following response:

.circleci/echo.yml

```version: 2
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
    - image: circleci/openjdk:8-jdk
    steps:
    - checkout
  test:
    docker:
    - image: circleci/openjdk:8-jdk
    environment:
    - TERM: dumb
    steps:
    - checkout
    - run:
        command: "echo file ${AUTO_FILE} dir ${AUTO_DIR}"
workflows:
  version: 2
  workflow:
    jobs:
    - build
    - test```

yourusername/circle-autoAdded by GitHub
```
--->

### Logging Outputs

* Question: Is there a standard way to to log output? For example, Jenkins plugins provide console links to show the log output and provides hooks to log those messages. It is possible to log to stdout, but is there a better way to log those log messages.

* Answer: In CircleCI, all steps that run are logged, so any output from those steps will appear in the console. You can use SSH to `echo` things directly. CircleCI does not have a separate logging facility outside the console output.

### Failing Builds

Question: How can I intentionally fail a job that invokes an orb from within an orb?

Answer: You can always return a non-zero status code from the shell to fail the job. You can also use `run: circleci-agent step halt` as a step to exit the job without failing.

### Private Installation of CircleCI When Using Orbs

* Question: Can I use a private installation of CircleCI when using creating/using orbs?

* Answer: No. Currently the CircleCI server does not support private installations of CircleCI when creating or using orbs.

## See Also
- Refer to [Orb Introduction]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/orb-intro/), for a high-level overview.
- Refer to [Using Orbs]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/using-orbs/), for more about how to use existing orbs.
- Refer to [Creating Orbs]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/creating-orbs/), where you will find step-by-step instructions on how to create your own orb.
- Refer to [Reusing Config]({{site.baseurl}}/2.0/reusing-config/) for more detailed examples of reusable orbs, commands, parameters, and executors.
