jekyll/_cci2/proxy.adoc, before:

= Setting Up HTTP Proxies
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

This section describes how to configure CircleCI to use an HTTP proxy.

toc::[]

== Overview

If you are setting up your proxy through Amazon, read this before proceeding:

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-proxy.html#cli-configure-proxy-ec2[Using an HTTP Proxy - AWS Command Line Interface]

Avoid proxying internal requests, especially for the Services machine. To add these to the `NO_PROXY` rules, run:

```shell
export NO_PROXY=<services_box_ip>
```

In an ideal case, traffic to S3 will not be proxied, and will instead be bypassed by adding `s3.amazonaws.com,*.s3.amazonaws.com` to the `NO_PROXY` rule.

These instructions assume an unauthenticated HTTP proxy at `10.0.0.33:3128`, a Services machine at `10.0.1.238` and use of `ghe.example.com` as the GitHub Enterprise host.

CAUTION: The following proxy instructions must be completed **before** installing CircleCI on fresh VMs or instances. You must also configure JVM OPTs again as described below.

== Service Machine Proxy Configuration

The Service machine has many components that need to make network calls, as follows:

* **External Network Calls** - Replicated is a vendor service that we use for the Management Console of CircleCI. CircleCI requires Replicated to make an outside call to validate the license, check for updates, and download upgrades. Replicated also downloads docker, installs it on the local machine, and uses a Docker container to create and configure S3 buckets. GitHub Enterprise may or may not be behind the proxy, but github.com will need to go through the proxy.
* **Internal Network Calls**
** If S3 traffic requires going through an HTTP proxy, CircleCI must pass proxy settings into the container.
** The CircleCI instance on the Services machine runs in a Docker container, so it must to pass the proxy settings to the container to maintain full functionality.

=== Set up Service Machine Proxy Support

For a static installation, not on AWS, SSH into the Services machine and run the following code snippet with your proxy address:

```
echo '{"HttpProxy": "http://<proxy-ip:port>"}' |
sudo tee  /etc/replicated.conf
(cat <<'EOF'
HTTP_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>

EOF
| sudo tee -a /etc/circle-installation-customizations
 sudo service replicated-ui stop; sudo service replicated stop;
 sudo service replicated-operator stop; sudo service replicated-ui start;
  sudo service replicated-operator start; sudo service replicated start
```

If you run in Amazon's EC2 service then you'll need to include `169.254.169.254` EC2 services as shown below:

```
echo '{"HttpProxy": "http://<proxy-ip:port>"}' |
sudo tee  /etc/replicated.conf
(cat <<'EOF'
HTTP_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
NO_PROXY=169.254.169.254,<circleci-service-ip>,
127.0.0.1,localhost,ghe.example.com
JVM_OPTS="-Dhttp.proxyHost=<ip> -Dhttp.proxyPort=<port>
-Dhttps.proxyHost=<proxy-ip> -Dhttps.proxyPort=<port) -Dhttp.nonProxyHosts=169.254.169.254|<circleci-service-ip>|
127.0.0.1|localhost|ghe.example.com"

EOF
| sudo tee -a /etc/circle-installation-customizations
 sudo service replicated-ui stop; sudo service replicated stop;
 sudo service replicated-operator stop; sudo service replicated-ui start;
  sudo service replicated-operator start; sudo service replicated start
```

NOTE: The above is not handled by by our enterprise-setup script and will need to be added to the user data for the Services Machine startup or done manually.

// not quite clear what is meant by this note... what's user data in this context?
<<<
=== Corporate Proxies

WARNING: When our instructions ask if you use a proxy, you will also be prompted to input the address. It is **very important** that you input the proxy in the following format: `<protocol>://<ip>:<port>`. If you miss any part, then `apt-get` won't work correctly and the packages won't download.

=== Nomad Client Configuration

==== External Network Calls

CircleCI uses `curl`  and `awscli` scripts to download initialization scripts, along with jars from Amazon S3. Both `curl` and `awscli` respect environment settings, but if you have whitelisted traffic from Amazon S3 you should not have any problems.

==== Internal Network Calls

* CircleCI JVM:
** Any connections to other Nomad Clients or the Services machine should be excluded from HTTP proxy
** Connections to GitHub Enterprise should be excluded from HTTP proxy

* The following contains parts that may be impacted due to a proxy configuration:
** http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html[Amazon EC2 metadata]. This **should not** be proxied.  If it is, then the machine will be misconfigured.
** Amazon S3 traffic — note S3 discussion above
** Amazon EC2 API - EC2 API traffic may need to be proxied.  You would note lots of failures (timeout failures) in logs if the proxy setting is misconfigured, but it will not block CircleCI from functioning.

=== Nomad Client Proxy Setup

* If you are installing CircleCI Server on AWS using Terraform, you should add the below to your Nomad client launch configuration – these instructions should be added to `/etc/environment`.
* If you are using Docker refer to the https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/systemd/#/http-proxy[Docker HTTP Proxy Instructions] documentation.
* If you are running a static installation, add the following to the server before installation:
+
```bash
#!/bin/bash

(cat <<'EOF'
HTTP_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
NO_PROXY=169.254.169.254,<circleci-service-ip>,
127.0.0.1,localhost,ghe.example.com
JVM_OPTS="-Dhttp.proxyHost=<ip> -Dhttp.proxyPort=<port>
-Dhttps.proxyHost=<proxy-ip> -Dhttps.proxyPort=3128 -Dhttp.nonProxyHosts=169.254.169.254|<circleci-service-ip>|
127.0.0.1|localhost|ghe.example.com"
EOF
) | sudo tee -a /etc/environment

set -a
. /etc/environment
```
+
You will also need to follow https://docs.docker.com/network/proxy/[the Docker instructions] to make sure your containers have outbound/proxy access.

=== Troubleshooting

If you cannot access the CircleCI Management Console, but the Services machine seems to be running, try to SSH tunnel into the machine by running the following, substituting your proxy address and the IP address of your Services machine:

```shell
ssh -L 8800:<address you want to proxy through>:8800 ubuntu@<ip_of_services_machine>
```

== Data Persistence
Contact support@circleci.com to discuss externalizing services for data persistence.
// Refer to the "Adding External Services to CircleCI Server v2.17" document for instructions to configure your installation for data persistence.

// <!--but this is an internal doc... should this say 'contact support for guidance on configuring for data persistance?-->

Commit message:

draft troubleshooting for repl timeout

jekyll/_cci2/proxy.adoc, after:

= Setting Up HTTP Proxies
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

This section describes how to configure CircleCI to use an HTTP proxy.

toc::[]

== Overview

If you are setting up your proxy through Amazon, read this before proceeding:

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-proxy.html#cli-configure-proxy-ec2[Using an HTTP Proxy - AWS Command Line Interface]

Avoid proxying internal requests, especially for the Services machine. To add these to the `NO_PROXY` rules, run:

```shell
export NO_PROXY=<services_box_ip>
```

In an ideal case, traffic to S3 will not be proxied, and will instead be bypassed by adding `s3.amazonaws.com,*.s3.amazonaws.com` to the `NO_PROXY` rule.

These instructions assume an unauthenticated HTTP proxy at `10.0.0.33:3128`, a Services machine at `10.0.1.238` and use of `ghe.example.com` as the GitHub Enterprise host.

CAUTION: The following proxy instructions must be completed **before** installing CircleCI on fresh VMs or instances. You must also configure JVM OPTs again as described below.

== Service Machine Proxy Configuration

The Service machine has many components that need to make network calls, as follows:

* **External Network Calls** - Replicated is a vendor service that we use for the Management Console of CircleCI. CircleCI requires Replicated to make an outside call to validate the license, check for updates, and download upgrades. Replicated also downloads docker, installs it on the local machine, and uses a Docker container to create and configure S3 buckets. GitHub Enterprise may or may not be behind the proxy, but github.com will need to go through the proxy.
* **Internal Network Calls**
** If S3 traffic requires going through an HTTP proxy, CircleCI must pass proxy settings into the container.
** The CircleCI instance on the Services machine runs in a Docker container, so it must to pass the proxy settings to the container to maintain full functionality.

=== Set up Service Machine Proxy Support

For a static installation, not on AWS, SSH into the Services machine and run the following code snippet with your proxy address:

```
echo '{"HttpProxy": "http://<proxy-ip:port>"}' |
sudo tee  /etc/replicated.conf
(cat <<'EOF'
HTTP_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>

EOF
| sudo tee -a /etc/circle-installation-customizations
 sudo service replicated-ui stop; sudo service replicated stop;
 sudo service replicated-operator stop; sudo service replicated-ui start;
  sudo service replicated-operator start; sudo service replicated start
```

If you run in Amazon's EC2 service then you'll need to include `169.254.169.254` EC2 services as shown below:

```
echo '{"HttpProxy": "http://<proxy-ip:port>"}' |
sudo tee  /etc/replicated.conf
(cat <<'EOF'
HTTP_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
NO_PROXY=169.254.169.254,<circleci-service-ip>,
127.0.0.1,localhost,ghe.example.com
JVM_OPTS="-Dhttp.proxyHost=<ip> -Dhttp.proxyPort=<port>
-Dhttps.proxyHost=<proxy-ip> -Dhttps.proxyPort=<port) -Dhttp.nonProxyHosts=169.254.169.254|<circleci-service-ip>|
127.0.0.1|localhost|ghe.example.com"

EOF
| sudo tee -a /etc/circle-installation-customizations
 sudo service replicated-ui stop; sudo service replicated stop;
 sudo service replicated-operator stop; sudo service replicated-ui start;
  sudo service replicated-operator start; sudo service replicated start
```

NOTE: The above is not handled by by our enterprise-setup script and will need to be added to the user data for the Services Machine startup or done manually.

// not quite clear what is meant by this note... what's user data in this context?
<<<
=== Corporate Proxies

WARNING: When our instructions ask if you use a proxy, you will also be prompted to input the address. It is **very important** that you input the proxy in the following format: `<protocol>://<ip>:<port>`. If you miss any part, then `apt-get` won't work correctly and the packages won't download.

=== Nomad Client Configuration

==== External Network Calls

CircleCI uses `curl`  and `awscli` scripts to download initialization scripts, along with jars from Amazon S3. Both `curl` and `awscli` respect environment settings, but if you have whitelisted traffic from Amazon S3 you should not have any problems.

==== Internal Network Calls

* CircleCI JVM:
** Any connections to other Nomad Clients or the Services machine should be excluded from HTTP proxy
** Connections to GitHub Enterprise should be excluded from HTTP proxy

* The following contains parts that may be impacted due to a proxy configuration:
** http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-metadata.html[Amazon EC2 metadata]. This **should not** be proxied.  If it is, then the machine will be misconfigured.
** Amazon S3 traffic — note S3 discussion above
** Amazon EC2 API - EC2 API traffic may need to be proxied.  You would note lots of failures (timeout failures) in logs if the proxy setting is misconfigured, but it will not block CircleCI from functioning.

=== Nomad Client Proxy Setup

* If you are installing CircleCI Server on AWS using Terraform, you should add the below to your Nomad client launch configuration – these instructions should be added to `/etc/environment`.
* If you are using Docker refer to the https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/systemd/#/http-proxy[Docker HTTP Proxy Instructions] documentation.
* If you are running a static installation, add the following to the server before installation:
+
```bash
#!/bin/bash

(cat <<'EOF'
HTTP_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-ip:port>
NO_PROXY=169.254.169.254,<circleci-service-ip>,
127.0.0.1,localhost,ghe.example.com
JVM_OPTS="-Dhttp.proxyHost=<ip> -Dhttp.proxyPort=<port>
-Dhttps.proxyHost=<proxy-ip> -Dhttps.proxyPort=3128 -Dhttp.nonProxyHosts=169.254.169.254|<circleci-service-ip>|
127.0.0.1|localhost|ghe.example.com"
EOF
) | sudo tee -a /etc/environment

set -a
. /etc/environment
```
+
You will also need to follow https://docs.docker.com/network/proxy/[the Docker instructions] to make sure your containers have outbound/proxy access.

=== Troubleshooting

==== Can't access the Management Console
If you cannot access the CircleCI Management Console, but the Services machine seems to be running, try to SSH tunnel into the machine by running the following, substituting your proxy address and the IP address of your Services machine:

```shell
ssh -L 8800:<address you want to proxy through>:8800 ubuntu@<ip_of_services_machine>
```

==== Repl times out
If you experience a timeout when running the following, you will need to allow access through your corporate proxy to any repositories that are required for dependency management:
```
sudo su
docker exec -it frontend /bin/bash
lein repl :connect 6005
```

Refer to the error output for guidance on which repositories need to be granted access. The list will be different for each corporate proxy, but following is an example list:

- repo1.maven.org
- build.clojure.org
- clojars.org
- repo.clojars.org

== Data Persistence
Contact  https://support.circleci.com/hc/en-us[CircleCI Support] to discuss externalizing services for data persistence.
// Refer to the "Adding External Services to CircleCI Server v2.17" document for instructions to configure your installation for data persistence.

// <!--but this is an internal doc... should this say 'contact support for guidance on configuring for data persistance?-->
