jekyll/_cci2/updating-server.adoc, before:

= Upgrading a Server Installation
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

This section describes the process for upgrading your CircleCI Server installation from v2.17.x to v{{site.server_version}}. If you have already upgraded to v2.18 and would like steps to upgrade to patch release v{{site.server_version}}, first take a <<1-snapshot-for-rollback,snapshot>> and then follow the <<3-upgrade-circleci-server,application upgrade steps>>.

toc::[]

== Org Rename Script

WARNING: Before upgrading please read and follow the steps below if you have **ever had issues with renaming an organization within CircleCI**
or you suspect that an **organization rename might have happened at any point**.

. SSH into your Services machine
. REPL into `workflows-conductor` by running the following: `sudo docker exec -it workflows-conductor lein repl :connect 6005`
. Go to this link for the https://gist.githubusercontent.com/BoVice/49a5a98e93508e7913b7d62d6e5de68b/raw/e354eb42a97ca509809eaafe7b28052481702b9e/org-rename.cjl[org rename script]. Copy/paste this script into the REPL session. It will run migration and output current progress.
. If any `ERROR` messages are present in the output please report back to your CSM or reach out to support.

== Upgrade Steps Overview

Following is an overview of the CircleCI Server upgrade steps. Each stage is described in detail below.

* Take a <<1-snapshot-for-rollback,snapshot>> of your installation so you can rollback later if necessary (optional but recommended)
* Update <<2-updating-replicated,Replicated>> and check you are running Docker v17.12.1, update if necessary
* <<3-upgrade-circleci-server,Install the latest version of CircleCI Server>>

=== 1. Snapshot for Rollback

To take a snapshot of your installation:

. Go to the Management Console (e.g. `your-circleci-hostname.com:8800`) and click Stop Now to stop the CircleCI service.
+
.Stop CircleCI
image::stop_replicated_update_available.png[Stop CircleCI]
. Ensure no jobs are running on the nomad clients – you can check this by running `nomad status`
. Navigate to the AWS EC2 management console and select your Services machine instance
. Select Actions > Image > Create Image – Select the No Reboot option if you want to avoid downtime at this point. This image creation step creates an AMI that can be readily launched as a new EC2 instance to restore your installation.
+
.Snapshot Image Creation
image::create_snapshot.png[Snapshot Image Creation]

NOTE: It is also possible to automate this process with the AWS API. Subsequent AMIs/snapshots are only as large as the difference (changed blocks) since the last snapshot, such that storage costs are not necessarily larger for more frequent snapshots, see Amazon's EBS snapshot billing document for details.
Once you have the snapshot you are free to make changes on the Services machine.

If you do need to rollback at any point, see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/backup/#restoring-from-backup[guide to restoring from a backup].

=== 2. Updating Replicated

==== a. Prerequisites

* Your installation is Ubuntu 14.04 or 16.04 based.
* Your installation is **not** airgapped and you can access the internet from it.
* We will be updating to Replicated v2.38, but first we need to check you are running at least v2.10.3 on your Services machine. To check this, SSH into the Services machine and run the following:
+
```shell
replicated --version
```
+
If you are running a version of Replicated pre v2.10.3 please reach out to support@circleci.com.
If you are already on v2.38 you can skip the next step and move to <<3-upgrade-circleci-server,upgrade the CircleCI application>>

==== b. Preparations

CAUTION: Remember to take a snapshot (described above) before starting the Replicated update process

. Stop the CircleCI application by clicking the Stop Now button on the Dashboard. Application shutdown takes a few minutes. Wait for the status to become “Stopped” before continuing.
+
.Stop the CircleCI Application
image::stop_replicated_update_available.png[Stop the CircleCI Application]
+
Alternatively you can SSH into the Services machine and stop the CircleCI application from the command line:
+
```shell
replicatedctl app stop
```
+
You can check the status using the followng:
+
```shell
replicatedctl app status inspect
```
+
Example Output:
+
```shell
[
    {
        "AppID": "edd9471be0bc4ea04dfca94718ddf621",
        "Sequence": 2439,
        "State": "stopped",
        "DesiredState": "stopped",
        "Error": "",
        "IsCancellable": false,
        "IsTransitioning": false,
        "LastModifiedAt": "2018-10-23T22:00:21.314987894Z"
    }
]
```

. For the replicated update to succeed, it is necessary to update docker to the recommended version, 17.12.1. Check which version you are running with `docker version` and if you need to update, follow these steps:
+
```shell
sudo apt-get install docker-ce=17.12.1~ce-0~ubuntu
```

. Pin the Docker version using the following command:
+
```shell
sudo apt-mark hold docker-ce
```

==== c. Perform Update

. Perform the Replicated update by executing the update script as follows:
+
```shell
curl -sSL "https://get.replicated.com/docker?replicated_tag=2.38.0" | sudo bash
```
+
Double-check your replicated and docker versions:
+
```shell
replicatedctl version    # 2.38.0
docker -v                # 17.12.1
```

. Restart the app with
+
```shell
replicatedctl app start
```
+
The application will take a few minutes to spin up. You can check the progress in the administration dashboard or by executing;
+
```shell
replicatedctl app status inspect
```
+
Example output:
+
```shell
[
    {
        "AppID": "edd9471be0bc4ea04dfca94718ddf621",
        "Sequence": 2439,
        "State": "started",
        "DesiredState": "started",
        "Error": "",
        "IsCancellable": true,
        "IsTransitioning": true,
        "LastModifiedAt": "2018-10-23T22:04:05.00374451Z"
    }
]
```

=== 3. Upgrade CircleCI Server

. Once you are running the latest version of Replicated, click the View Update button in the Management Console dashboard.
+
.View Available Updates
image::view_update.png[View Available Updates]
. Click Install next to the version you wish to install.
+
TIP: Please refresh your screen intermittently during the install process to avoid unnecessary waiting.
+
.View Available Releases
image::release_history.png[View Available Releases]
+
The install process may take several minutes and the install status will be displayed both on the Releases page and the main Dashboard.
. Once the installation is finished, navigate to the Dashboard to start your installation - Note the middle box on the Dashboard will read "CircleCI is up to date" when you are running the latest version.

Commit message:

fix reusable snippets for PDF and remove version variable as it's broken

jekyll/_cci2/updating-server.adoc, after:

= Upgrading a Server Installation
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:icons: font
:toc: macro
:toc-title:

include::../_includes/snippets/server-only.adoc[]

This section describes the process for upgrading your CircleCI Server installation from v2.17.x to v2.18.3. If you have already upgraded to v2.18 and would like steps to upgrade to patch release v2.18.3, first take a <<1-snapshot-for-rollback,snapshot>> and then follow the <<3-upgrade-circleci-server,application upgrade steps>>.

toc::[]

== Org Rename Script

WARNING: Before upgrading please read and follow the steps below if you have **ever had issues with renaming an organization within CircleCI**
or you suspect that an **organization rename might have happened at any point**.

. SSH into your Services machine
. REPL into `workflows-conductor` by running the following: `sudo docker exec -it workflows-conductor lein repl :connect 6005`
. Go to this link for the https://gist.githubusercontent.com/BoVice/49a5a98e93508e7913b7d62d6e5de68b/raw/e354eb42a97ca509809eaafe7b28052481702b9e/org-rename.cjl[org rename script]. Copy/paste this script into the REPL session. It will run migration and output current progress.
. If any `ERROR` messages are present in the output please report back to your CSM or reach out to support.

== Upgrade Steps Overview

Following is an overview of the CircleCI Server upgrade steps. Each stage is described in detail below.

* Take a <<1-snapshot-for-rollback,snapshot>> of your installation so you can rollback later if necessary (optional but recommended)
* Update <<2-updating-replicated,Replicated>> and check you are running Docker v17.12.1, update if necessary
* <<3-upgrade-circleci-server,Install the latest version of CircleCI Server>>

=== 1. Snapshot for Rollback

To take a snapshot of your installation:

. Go to the Management Console (e.g. `your-circleci-hostname.com:8800`) and click Stop Now to stop the CircleCI service.
+
.Stop CircleCI
image::stop_replicated_update_available.png[Stop CircleCI]
. Ensure no jobs are running on the nomad clients – you can check this by running `nomad status`
. Navigate to the AWS EC2 management console and select your Services machine instance
. Select Actions > Image > Create Image – Select the No Reboot option if you want to avoid downtime at this point. This image creation step creates an AMI that can be readily launched as a new EC2 instance to restore your installation.
+
.Snapshot Image Creation
image::create_snapshot.png[Snapshot Image Creation]

NOTE: It is also possible to automate this process with the AWS API. Subsequent AMIs/snapshots are only as large as the difference (changed blocks) since the last snapshot, such that storage costs are not necessarily larger for more frequent snapshots, see Amazon's EBS snapshot billing document for details.
Once you have the snapshot you are free to make changes on the Services machine.

If you do need to rollback at any point, see our https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/backup/#restoring-from-backup[guide to restoring from a backup].

=== 2. Updating Replicated

==== a. Prerequisites

* Your installation is Ubuntu 14.04 or 16.04 based.
* Your installation is **not** airgapped and you can access the internet from it.
* We will be updating to Replicated v2.38, but first we need to check you are running at least v2.10.3 on your Services machine. To check this, SSH into the Services machine and run the following:
+
```shell
replicated --version
```
+
If you are running a version of Replicated pre v2.10.3 please reach out to support@circleci.com.
If you are already on v2.38 you can skip the next step and move to <<3-upgrade-circleci-server,upgrade the CircleCI application>>

==== b. Preparations

CAUTION: Remember to take a snapshot (described above) before starting the Replicated update process

. Stop the CircleCI application by clicking the Stop Now button on the Dashboard. Application shutdown takes a few minutes. Wait for the status to become “Stopped” before continuing.
+
.Stop the CircleCI Application
image::stop_replicated_update_available.png[Stop the CircleCI Application]
+
Alternatively you can SSH into the Services machine and stop the CircleCI application from the command line:
+
```shell
replicatedctl app stop
```
+
You can check the status using the followng:
+
```shell
replicatedctl app status inspect
```
+
Example Output:
+
```shell
[
    {
        "AppID": "edd9471be0bc4ea04dfca94718ddf621",
        "Sequence": 2439,
        "State": "stopped",
        "DesiredState": "stopped",
        "Error": "",
        "IsCancellable": false,
        "IsTransitioning": false,
        "LastModifiedAt": "2018-10-23T22:00:21.314987894Z"
    }
]
```

. For the replicated update to succeed, it is necessary to update docker to the recommended version, 17.12.1. Check which version you are running with `docker version` and if you need to update, follow these steps:
+
```shell
sudo apt-get install docker-ce=17.12.1~ce-0~ubuntu
```

. Pin the Docker version using the following command:
+
```shell
sudo apt-mark hold docker-ce
```

==== c. Perform Update

. Perform the Replicated update by executing the update script as follows:
+
```shell
curl -sSL "https://get.replicated.com/docker?replicated_tag=2.38.0" | sudo bash
```
+
Double-check your replicated and docker versions:
+
```shell
replicatedctl version    # 2.38.0
docker -v                # 17.12.1
```

. Restart the app with
+
```shell
replicatedctl app start
```
+
The application will take a few minutes to spin up. You can check the progress in the administration dashboard or by executing;
+
```shell
replicatedctl app status inspect
```
+
Example output:
+
```shell
[
    {
        "AppID": "edd9471be0bc4ea04dfca94718ddf621",
        "Sequence": 2439,
        "State": "started",
        "DesiredState": "started",
        "Error": "",
        "IsCancellable": true,
        "IsTransitioning": true,
        "LastModifiedAt": "2018-10-23T22:04:05.00374451Z"
    }
]
```

=== 3. Upgrade CircleCI Server

. Once you are running the latest version of Replicated, click the View Update button in the Management Console dashboard.
+
.View Available Updates
image::view_update.png[View Available Updates]
. Click Install next to the version you wish to install.
+
TIP: Please refresh your screen intermittently during the install process to avoid unnecessary waiting.
+
.View Available Releases
image::release_history.png[View Available Releases]
+
The install process may take several minutes and the install status will be displayed both on the Releases page and the main Dashboard.
. Once the installation is finished, navigate to the Dashboard to start your installation - Note the middle box on the Dashboard will read "CircleCI is up to date" when you are running the latest version.
