docs/WIDGETS.md, before:

# CircleCI Docs: Widgets

Many documentation pages will have widgets. These are discrete page elements that provide advanced functionality within Markdown.

The widgets available in CircleCI.com/docs/ are:


## Tabbed HTML Elements

![Tabbed Code Blocks Widget Screenshot](./assets/widget-tabbed-code-blocks.gif)

This allows you to create tabs in a code block to display alternate versions of something.
The example from the screenshot shows how you can use tabbed code blocks to display a CircleCI v2.1 and v2.0 config.

Here's how this would look in Jekyll's Markdown:

````
{:.codetab.1.v2_1}
```bash
echo "This is brand new CircleCI v2.1 config!"
```

{:.codetab.1.v2_0}
```bash
echo "This is 2.0 config."
```
````

After the string `codetab` you'll see the integer `1`.
This is how tabbed code blocks are grouped.
Everything with `1` appears together in a group.
Everything with `2` will appear in a separate group of tabs, and so on.

Periods (`.`) and spaces (` `) aren't supported in tab names.
Instead, use an underscore (`_`) and dash (`-`) respectively and they'll be rendered correctly.


## OS Version Matrix

![OS Version Matrix Widget Screenshot](./assets/widget-os-matrix.png)

Use this widget to display which version (if any) of some software is available on a given operating system (OS) supported by CircleCI. This only applies to CircleCI 1.0.

Version numbers can be passed as either strings or from Jekyll datafiles.

```
{% include os-matrix.html trusty=site.data.trusty.versions.summary.docker precise="v1.7.1" macos="n/a" %}
```

If an OS doesn’t support some software, there’s no need to pass any variable at all.

For example, if we had software that was only compatible with Ubuntu 14.04 “Trusty”, we would write:

```
{% include os-matrix.html trusty=site.data.trusty.versions.summary.docker %}
```

Commit message:

Fix links to assets and some grammar + examples.

docs/WIDGETS.md, after:

# CircleCI Docs: Widgets

Some documentation pages will have widgets. These are page elements that provide advanced functionality within Markdown.

## Tabbed HTML Elements

![Tabbed Code Blocks Widget Screenshot](./assets/widget-tabbed-code-blocks.gif)

Tabbed HTML elements allow you to create tabs to display alternate versions of something. The example gif above shows how you can use tabbed  blocks to display different version of a screenshot between CircleCI Cloud and Server.

Here's how this would look in Jekyll's Markdown:

```md
{:.tab.jobscreenshot.Cloud}
![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/new-job-page.png)

{:.tab.jobscreenshot.Server}
![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/docs/old-job-page.png)
```

Using the example line `{:.tab.jobscreenshot.Cloud}`, let's look at how usage of tabs is broken down.

`.tab` creates a class called "tab"; it must be the first class.

Next, you have a string that can be (almost) anything. In this case it is `jobscreenshot`. It could just as easily be `my_code_sample`. All tabs that share this group name will be grouped together.

Finally, you have the third part of the tab classes: `Cloud`. This is the _name_ of the tab as it will appear in the UI. 

### Limitations:

Periods (`.`) and spaces (` `) aren't supported in tab names.
Instead, use an underscore (`_`) and dash (`-`) respectively and they'll be rendered correctly.


## OS Version Matrix

![OS Version Matrix Widget Screenshot](./assets/widget-os-matrix.png)

Use this widget to display which version (if any) of some software is available on a given operating system (OS) supported by CircleCI. This only applies to CircleCI 1.0.

Version numbers can be passed as either strings or from Jekyll datafiles.

```
{% include os-matrix.html trusty=site.data.trusty.versions.summary.docker precise="v1.7.1" macos="n/a" %}
```

If an OS doesn’t support some software, there’s no need to pass any variable at all.

For example, if we had software that was only compatible with Ubuntu 14.04 “Trusty”, we would write:

```
{% include os-matrix.html trusty=site.data.trusty.versions.summary.docker %}
```
